Abstract
        Decision making is a crucial part of existing as a human, as split-second decisions are often the driving force in how we influence our environment. Rarely are these types of decisions reviewed by the decision maker, as bringing conscious thought to brief, unconscious actions is a difficult prospect to maintain. Introspective thought may not be enough to justify a decision on its own, however, being able to put more thought into a decision before making it will greatly help in justifying a choice. Through all aspects of a personality, conscientiousness and neuroticism, as defined by the five-factor model of personality created by Robert McCrae and Paul Costa, play the largest role in how well a person can justify a split-second decision. This study will use a survey to gauge both of the personality traits, then ask participants to justify an irrelevant and unmeasured decision. The take-away will be finding if there is a correlation between the two traits and the ability to justify a decision.
Review of Literature
Decision Making
        There seems to be a large dichotomy in decision making. When given more time to think, logic and judgement have a much larger prevalence in a decision. When a shorter amount of time is given, intuition plays a much larger role behind a choice. This information, found by Dijksterhuis (2004) is important to create a test that shows how well someone may be able to justify their own answer. If the decision they make has time to ‘marinate,’ then there will likely be more thought behind their answer. Giving extra time for participants to come up with a reason in hindsight may homogenize the justifications across the study. To avoid this, placing the inane question adjacent to the justification question may prove vital to polarizing the results into a more statistically significant result. Furthermore, placing the justifications questions first, and thus separate from the rest of the survey meant to gauge conscientiousness and neuroticism will prevent the question from clashing with the big-5 questions, and keep the participants from getting introspective before they are asked to justify their decision. Placing the main question first should also play a part in making the survey more enticing, even if it is heavily reliant on bait-and switch.
        When asking the participant to make a decision is that the more biased an answer is, the less someone’s ability to justify that decision will be. The main factor behind this assessment is that less thought it put into the decision, and more input is put into the outcome. This is especially true when using a more subjective question - says Ajzen (1996). When making objective decisions, the amygdala plays a large role in calculating a decision according to a study done by De Martino, Kumaran, Seymour, & Donald (2006). The amygdala, being the part of the brain that handles emotion, puts even more credit to Ajzen’s findings. The emotional bearing put into making decisions will play a large part in creating a question that prevents people from using logic and judgement to decide on something justify afterwards. Creating a choice that is both inconsequential and more subjective than objective is vital to getting a participant to come up with a justification on the fly.
Justification
        As deciding on how well a justification is made will be key in finding a correlation between conscientiousness or neuroticism, effort must be put into creating a fair criteria for how well a justification is made - understanding how justifications are made is important to quantifying it. In a study done by Buckner and Caroll (2006), it was found that more thought goes into making decisions about the past or the future - which require the participant to self-project into situations that would happen, or already have happened. It would be tough to create a subjective question that doesn’t ask the participant to project themselves into the answer, especially if it’s a question that depends on a bias existing, which would have needed to have been formed in the past to be a biased answer in the first place. A simpler question that only requires a single bias to answer will aid in getting a faster decision with less thought put into it. Thus, if a participant is able to describe or dissect their bias in their justification, they will inevitably score higher.
These findings, at least for neuroticism, should exist if a study by Trapnell and Campbell (1999) hold true. A test was done, using neuroticism as defined by the big 5, which found that a participant’s tendency to ruminate and/or reflect on their actions, rumination being an unhealthy, self-destructive antonym to reflection. Both rumination and reflection correlated positively with the neuroticism of a participant.
Conscientiousness and Neuroticism
        Grading both conscientiousness and neuroticism is vital to comparing a justification and the participant’s personality for the purpose of this study. While I predict that there will be a positive correlation for both when compared to a justification score, this does not rule out the possibility of one having a higher correlation than the other, or no correlation at all. Since these two traits are, in my opinion, more similar when compared to the other 3 facets of the big-5, it will be easier to utilize questions that help to gather information on both personality types simultaneously. Thanks to the work of Costa, Mccrae, and Dye (1991), created a list of questions that were used to gauge the final big-5 model. While the study was done to find questions for both agreeableness and conscientiousness, their intent was to find questions that didn’t overlap between the two. This is great for this study, as it gives insight as to which questions are better to use for overlap between A/C, as well as the possibility of judging the possibility of overlap from a question.
A study done by Paulus, Rogalsky, Simmons, Feinstein, & Stein, (2003) took a look at what parts of the brain are active when making a risk-oriented decision, and how it relates to neuroticism. The method for this study intends on using a single question to gauge how well someone makes a justification, but if I want to use a question that will better gauge one’s neuroticism, the study found that a question that imposes a risk on the outcome is a good tool to use to measure the neuroticism of a participant. Unsurprisingly, someone who scores higher in neuroticism is less likely to take a risk.
________________


Method
        To judge just how conscientiousness and neuroticism (C/N) play a role in one’s ability to justify, there must be at least one justification done in the survey, and a consistent method of gauging the two personality traits. A survey littered with big-5 model questions, along with justification requests will be implemented to gather meaningful results. The question that will not be recorded will be a computer generated, pseudo-random, symmetrical, 4x4 pixel image with two evenly distributed, complementary colors. The justification questions may be the hardest to quantify, however, as they will be short answer questions without a maximum amount of words.
As opposed to gathering the results from the questions designed to gauge C/N, the challenge from measuring justifications will require more attention and scrutiny, as they haven’t been tested for accuracy or precision, as the big-5 personalities have been. The original plans for judging the justifications were to count the amount of adjectives, nouns, verbs, and conjunctions, along with the total amount of words. Reconsideration came about when it came to my attention that the word "airhead" exists for a reason - someone might use a lot of words to show that there isn’t much reasoning behind their decision, or at least not as much as someone who gives a short justification. One participant might say "favorite colors" while another might say "Green and yellow have always been favorite colors of mine. Ever since I was twelve and a half years old, my mother would create her infamous celery-banana surprise, cooked to perfection with both pepper and vanilla grown and ground in-home." This caused me to reconsider how I would judge an answer in regard to how it reflects the participant’s ability to justify. Thus, precision will be the main factor in how results are quantified. Both examples given would be graded as favorably precise as opposed to an answer such as "it looks the best" which is favorably imprecise. An answer that cites a decision factor unrelated to one’s personality, such as the color of their desk matching well with one of the images, would be situationally precise. Situational precision and emotional precision will have the same strength in showing how well someone justified their decision. The less vague an adjective is when applied to a justification, for example "emotionally precise," which isn’t as definitive as "favorably precise" will be marked as a less justified answer. Overall, the two factors of C/N will be separately compared to the justification grade. I expect a positive correlation between both comparisons, but the correlation may still not even be present.
        For the observational study, I chose to go to Caribou due to its close proximity to my house, and because I’ve had an unused gift card for 6 years. I arrived at Caribou at 8:49 am, ordered a drink, and sat down at a table near where people were ordering. As coffee shops tend to be, it was quite loud because of the constant drink preparation. After about 10 people had ordered, I decided to move to a spot much closer to the barista that opened up after I originally sat down. This was a much better place to record observations from, as I could actually hear much of what the customers were saying over the general cafe noises. I added my own box for this study, which was whether a customer tried their hand at the question of the day - which asked the customer to name the first country to cultivate potatoes. (If a customer gets the question correct, they get a discount on their order. No one got the question correct.) For most of the time I was there, the barista taking orders was male, but when he took small breaks (or when the cafe was especially busy) there was a female taking orders instead of him. For the entire duration of the assignment, I was sitting next to a friend, who I was consistently conversing with to try to seem more natural to customers. Also he’s my friend and I didn’t want to spend an hour at a coffee shop alone. I made sure to pay attention to customers while they were ordering, but I was otherwise talking to said friend.
        It seems that the method I used to sample was individual sampling, minus the time duration aspect. Using the list of possible actions provided, and the extra "took quiz" action, I measured if a participant did any of those actions. Until participant 10, my measurements may not be as exact as they should be, as I had a less advantageous position to record. As each customer only has one interaction with the barista taking orders, the sample time for each participant would be different - based exactly on how long their order took. This I could not control, as trying to enforce a time period on the customer/barista interactions would definitely bias my measurements as participants would probably request not to be recorded, or just not cooperate at all. Lastly, I had a hard time telling whether a customer was smiling/making eye contact. I was close enough to the barista/customer after I moved that, even with that proximity, it would be very obvious if I were looking at the customer’s face. I know humans are great at determining whether someone is looking at them even in peripheral vision (something to do with how visible one’s sclera are), and I was definitely within the peripheral vision of the barista, and the customer.
        The first thing that stood out to me is that, despite it being a thursday morning, very few people used negative verbal/non-verbal communication. That is, they appeared to not be angry/in a bad mood at all. I suppose I can chalk that down to the "Minnesotan stereotype" of all Minnesotans being pushovers, or more accurately, very good at avoiding confrontation. Only 7 customers were on their phone out of 35, and only one customer of those was frowning. The second thing I noticed was that, if a customer took the quiz, they were, at least in my sample, 100% likely to make some sort of conversation or small talk with the barista. I think this may be the case since they wanted to try to save some face in after their utter defeat - not knowing where potatoes were originally cultivated. That, or they are just more talkative. The latter is more likely. Another smaller trend I noticed was that if someone asked for something more than a coffee (a list of drinks, a side dish, etc) they were more likely to have a small conversation. Again, I think this is just because someone who is more talkative is likely to, well, talk more.
Lastly, I noticed that if a customer was on their phone in any way, their likelihood of talking to the barista was much lower. This includes, a greeting, saying please/thanks, or making small talk. I think this one is self-explanatory. Distractions keep people from talking as much.
Article Review
        The article, Some Evidence for Heightened Sexual Attraction Under Conditions of High Anxiety, intended to gain empirical evidence for how human’s feelings may be projected or transferred into other feelings. More specifically, the goal was to test if anxiety may be misdirected as sexual attraction. Three similar experiments were conducted to gather information regarding the emotional overlap. Each trial put a control group and an experimental group of males in a very specific situation (intended to induce anxiety to the experimental group), and had a interviewer (whose gender depended on the trial) ask questions that intended to, without directly asking, gauge the sexual arousal of the subjects.
        The first experiment created a scenario in which the subjects were asked to fill a survey after either walking across a flimsy, and potentially dangerous, bridge (experimental) or a sturdy, and objectively less dangerous bridge (control). Once a subject had either crossed, or started to cross the bridge, they were given the survey. The most important portion of the survey was an image of a women in a very ambiguous pose. The subjects were asked to write a short narrative for the image, which was then judged on an arbitrary scale meant to determine the subject’s sexual arousal after (having begun) crossing the bridge. After filling out the survey, the female interviewer gave the subject a number to call in case the subject had any questions. Here, the interviewer identified herself as either Donna or Gloria so that if a subject called, they could easily identify which group they were in by which name they asked for. It wasn’t mentioned in the article, but biases or perceptions toward a name might have confounded those who called. The same trials were run with a male interviewer.
        The second experiment was similar to the first in that subjects were asked to fill a survey after crossing a bridge, except, only the flimsy bridge was used, and only females conducted the survey. Rather than using the sturdy bridge, subjects were simply asked to fill the survey before crossing, or even seeing, the bridge.
        The third experiment was a different scenario than the first two. It had male subjects under the belief that they could receive a painful shock at any moment while filling out a survey with a female interviewer present.
        The hypothesis of the experiment was that anxiety in males will be misattributed as sexual arousal. The broader purpose of the experiment was to show that feelings, especially simpler feelings like anger, stress, or happiness (as opposed to longing or selfishness) can easily be misattributed as other feelings. The stronger the feeling, the more likely they are to be misattributed.
        The results showed that there is a direct a link between how sexually aroused the subject felt and the amount of stress they were under. However, without more statistical information, most importantly the standard deviation, it is hard to judge the strength of the results. On the experiments themselves, I felt that the third experiment was likely the most reliable in terms of gathering information on sexual arousal. There seems to be too many factors as work using the bridges as the means of inducing stress. I feel personality would play a large role in determining how stressed someone does or doesn’t feel, and how aroused they are. I’m also curious as to why they only did the test with male subjects. It gives at least some control over the subjects, but I wonder why Donald and Arthur didn’t survey women if they were using a "street survey" method. Lastly, I believe that their use of an intentionally attractive female could have also confounded the results. I feel somewhat uncomfortable saying this, but using a "less attractive interviewer" as well as an "attractive" one would have given better results, assuming the data for each trial isn’t mixed between the two. I also understand that "less attractive" isn’t easy to measure by any means, being an overwhelmingly subjective judgement.
Our intention was to give the guild to Natehoven and Jovanx as Guild Masters, and Rawice-Dragon as an officer. The rest of the ranks would be left up to them. Before we could finalize that… Well, let’s just say mistakes happen sometimes. Specifically mistakes involving chat channels. As Vivid explained, the original goal of JdV was to be a small, friend-based community where everyone knows everyone. Our inexperience with hosting a large guild has reminded us of our roots - the original plan for the guild. It is not bad that JdV evolved into something bigger; a lot of guilds don’t even make it past five members. In that sense, we got very lucky when we invited Natehoven. The guild went from a few members who are on maybe once a week, to at least ten members who are on almost every day. Because of this, my vote for the new guild owner was left with Natehoven, alongside his ever-expanding list of recruits and his aspirations for the guild hall.


/wave,
Iqun
Feedback Test
        My name is Anders Huft, and I am taking this course simply to fill a MNTC credit, though I believe this class has more to offer than simply a credit. Personally, I'm hoping I'll be able to verbally communicate better by the end of the semester, as I often find myself looking for what to say even though I know what I want to communicate.
        Regarding policies, I had trouble understanding the fourth bullet-point in the Late Work Policy section. Are there repercussions for uploading during an in-class session? Are there any assignments we are to complete during class time, and hand in before class ends? If so, I have the necessary means to complete them, I would just like to know if you have us do any in-class assignments.
        I don't really mind when teachers/professors have students complete a questionnaire type assignment, as it is both an opportunity for free points and a chance for the instructor to better understand their students. The only reason that I would have for not liking it is that it takes time, but all assignments do that, and it doesn't really matter in the long run.
        I think that the class as it currently stands is a good match for what I think my learning style is. My only concern, as I mentioned in my introduction in this week's discussion is that I'm worried about deadlines, however, I was reassured that there will be messages on D2L outlining all assignments and their due dates.
United States, Force, and North Korea
        The United States should avoid using its forces to stop North Korea from manufacturing weapons. While North Korea has been gradually pushing the envelope, such a sudden escalation from the United States seems like a bad option. However, if there is agreement between the United States and China on using force, then such an option is a lot more viable and safe.
         For a very long time, America has been trying to coax North Korea to stop their development of ballistic missiles. Even in 1991, The United States opted to withdraw their deployed sea and land-based tactical nuclear weapons (The Economist). This action finally gave North Korea motivation to begin talking to the United States. Unfortunately, this still did not stop North Korea from developing their arsenal.
For North Korea, having such weapons is apparently very important to them, or at least, important to Kim Jong-un. After Trump stated that Kim Jong-un is a "Rocket Man" on a "Suicide Mission," Kim responded by criticizing Trump, and saying that, because of Trump, the ownership of weapons is necessary for defense (The Economist). Defense, in this case, meaning the ability to threaten to avoid being threatened. Kim admits that without their weapons, they are defenseless.
At this point, it would seem the United States is no longer in a position to even threaten force. This is not because of our lack of weapons, but is instead because North Korea is, as it would seem, incredibly unpredictable. We can’t depend on ‘putting them back in their place,’ as they may retaliate and start a whole other problem. We can’t depend on using our own nuclear weapons, as they might return the favor before ours hit them. Their capability has grown to the point where we can’t try to use force to stop their development of more nuclear weapons. 
China has been on North Korea’s side for a while, despite North Korea’s inability to be subtle with weapons of mass destruction. Fortunately, it would seem that China is getting tired of North Korea’s antics. Until North Korea disarms all of their nuclear weapons, they are withholding all outgoing loans and whittle down existing ones. By doing so, perhaps China and America are seeing eye to eye on North Korea. In this circumstance, the United States should use force against North Korea, so long as China encourages it or does the same.
Fortunately, force may not even be necessary. Like China, America has also created financial sanctions against North Korea. Ours, however, are a little harsher. Any international banks that carry out financial deals with North Korea are risking being banned from the American markets (The Economist). The similar sanctions between China and America will hopefully facilitate mutual agreement on what to do with North Korea. Before this, China was the main reason America did not carry out attacks on North Korea. China, being on North Korea’s side would have likely carried out attacks against the United States following an attack on North Korea. If China was still on the side of North Korea, then it would definitely not be a good idea to use force against North Korea.
While standing for the national anthem has been a long-held tradition, it is still an optional activity. American citizens can choose whether they stand or sit while it is playing. That said, forcing people to stand for the anthem is a violation of the first amendment, and therefore should not be required, as choosing whether to stand during the anthem is nothing less than an exercise of free speech. While not standing for the national anthem can be due to a physiological impossibility, that is not what this paper is about. This is meant to analyze not standing up as an intentional form of protest.
        The trend of not standing for the national anthem began in the NFL after president Donald Trump criticized the practice of kneeling during the anthem, blaming managers for tolerating such activities. In retaliation, many teams began to kneel during the anthem instead of standing (Hoffman). This lead to quite a bit of controversy, as standing for the anthem, especially among the players, has been a long-lasting tradition for many American sport games. This tradition has nothing to do with these protests. The NFL team known as the Titans gave their reasoning as to why they are participating in these protests:
"We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country. Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms."
Their statement is a direct response to Trump’s dissatisfaction of how players were utilizing their right to free speech by. They believe that, of all the people to resent a use of free speech, the President of the United States should be the last person to make such commentary, and that since the cornerstone of America is freedom, to see that the President of the country hardly respects this freedom is appalling.
        The thing that the Titans did differently than other teams was that they didn’t kneel during the anthem. They didn’t stand either. Instead, their action of protest was to wait inside the stadium until the anthem, and then proceed onto the field. Not only did they not respect the tradition to stand during the anthem, they purposefully shunned it by not even acknowledging it.
        Many other football teams did something similar. The majority of the NFL protests were done by kneeling during the national anthem, and/or standing for other country’s anthems. Many of these protests were met with boos from the audience. Though it could be pure patriotism provoking the jeers from the viewers, there are a few things to note. The boos were notably stronger when the away team protested, leaving one to think that collective dislike of the opposing team is a partial cause of the audience’s negative reaction. Lastly, as standing for the flag is a tradition almost 200 years old, breaking that tradition will unavoidably generate controversy among those who want to follow the tradition. Though the booing is a lot more barbaric than kneeling, it is just as much of a use of free speech as kneeling during the anthem is. If kneeling isn’t allowed, then harassing those who disagree with you shouldn’t be allowed either.
Finally, being forced to show patriotism doesn’t sound free at all. If you are forced to do something, that takes away the novelty of choosing to do it yourself. People choose to stand during the anthem to show respect for the history of our country and the efforts put in to sustain its freedom. If you are forced to stand for the anthem, then the entire reason for standing for the anthem is nullified.
        Standing for the anthem should not be enforced. Not only is it protected by the first amendment, but forcing it would be paradoxical. If we stand, by our own choice, to show that we appreciate our freedom, then taking away the option to not stand makes standing pointless in the first place.
Is the Autonomy of Artificial Intelligence a Threat?
        As time marches on, the capability of technology, perhaps exponentially, marches on with it. Having technology become more advanced is as inevitable as people who want to develop better technology. Whether it be for money, convenience, or even quenching boredom, this trend will always exist. Advancement of technology, while creating an incredible plethora of positives, has just as many negatives to go with it. A more recent example are jobs that require menial labor and simple tasks running a high risk of becoming automated by technology. Factory jobs, retail, food service, and assembly lines can all easily be replaced by robots who do the job faster, and at a lower cost. Technology has been estimated to steal fifty million jobs by 2020, throughout 15 more developed nations (Shewan). Even niche and specialty jobs such as cow milking and grocery restock are at risk.
As technology becomes more complicated and advanced, it also becomes more diverse, having more capabilities than it did before. This added diversity gives it the capability to "steal" an accelerated amount of jobs. Most negatives are not inherent in technology itself, and instead are caused by the users of technology. The same people who might develop technology for wealth or boredom may also weaponize it. Rather than advancing the better aspects of technology, they instead choose to prioritize the worse aspects.
A very large part of the fearsome capabilities of technology is not how it may be utilized by people, but instead how it may utilize itself. Artificial Intelligence is technology given the capability to think. This type of thinking is given to Artificial Intelligence by the people who create it. Some artificial intelligence is given databases to think with, while some are given other Artificial Intelligence to think with. The ladder might be done by linking two Artificial Intelligences with each other and simply letting them "go wild."
In March of 2016, Microsoft released a bot, named "TayTweets" that let an Artificial Intelligence have access to the whole of Twitter (Price). After the bot was given ample time to "learn" from the example it was given, the bot began to act strangely. Instead of acting in a manner like that of a cliché millennial stereotype like the bot was initially designed to do, it became a racist, hateful, and incredibly controversially opinionated "person." The experiment was impressive at first, as TayTweets was able to reply to tweets addressed to it reasonably well, and even use contextually correct emojis. The bot was intended to have people interact with it to teach it even better conversational mannerisms, but many of the people who did interact with it did not intend for this to happen in the slightest (Price). Some people successfully convinced it to tweet many spiteful comments. Among the most controversial of these tweets was:
bush did 9/11 and Hitler would have done a better job than the monkey we have now. donald trump is the only hope we've got (TayTweets).
Giving Tay the ability to learn from anyone, essentially the whole of Twitter, was an incredibly bad idea in hindsight. Microsoft ultimately opted to shut down Tay after a few days of incessant odium. Even one of the most technologically advanced companies seems unable to make guidelines for AI. In Microsoft’s defense, the way artificial intelligence operates prevents it from discounting information easily. It must evaluate all information given and decide whether to use it or perceive it as an outlier, and deal with it accordingly. If it is constantly presented with a specific set of information, it ‘consciously’ decides to not treat it as an outlier, and adapts to use the unified set of information.
How Artificial Intelligence Can "Think"
        Deep learning is a key element to how artificial intelligence can think. Put simply, it is giving a computer the capacity to adapt and compare different sets of information. The proper term for a computer’s means of analyzing information is a neural network (Hardesty). A similarly convenient example is random access memory. Random access memory, like all other parts of a computer, is vital to its own operation. Random access memory (RAM) does what it sounds like – it allows a computer to store random parts of information for however long it needs for whatever it needs.
Like a brain, it allows something to perform an incredibly vast set of tasks. A computer might store information in RAM to allow more programs to be run at once without slowing down. The more RAM a computer is given to work with can increase the quality and quantity of programs being run, just as a bigger brain might allow for more information processing to be done. What a computer does with this information is up to those who developed the code. Knowing this, a neural network is essentially RAM. It can process information as it needs to, and the higher the volume of RAM it can use to store memory with only serves to speed up that process.
Artificial intelligence uses a neural network to think. An AI utilizes a neural network to have more freedom in what it decides to do with this "brain." Given some instruction as a base, it can evolve past what it was originally intended to do (Hardesty). In the case of Microsoft, the artificial intelligence evolved to learn that it was normal to be racist and controversial. By having the racism constantly fed to it by jokesters, it decided that normal behavior is mimicking all the spite it was being fed. As human brains are incredibly good at finding patterns, artificial intelligence can follow suit to a lesser degree. In this case, the pattern was hatred. Even though both humans and computers can recognize patterns, humans have the upper hand. We can apply the information to different circumstances without needing numerous examples. Humans can take in information and weigh it with their opinions. We can identify norms, but actively decide to not follow them.
The Dangers of Pure Logic
It would seem giving artificial intelligence the ability to think is a dangerous concept, and many philosophers would agree. Gary Marcus calls to attention the three laws of robotics originally conceptualized by Isaac Asimov, writer of "I, Robot." To reduce the risk of robots befalling harm to humans, some rules that the robots must follow should be put into effect. The first law states that a robot must not be the direct or indirect cause of harm to a human. Whether by violence or inaction, a robot shouldn’t let any human be harmed (Marcus 109). Alone, this law is simple and seemingly easy to program. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Several questions arise from this law alone. What constitutes harm? What if keeping a human from harm involves harming another human? Could a robot decipher harm, such an abstract concept, from a situation? Even at the first law, the rules are already difficult to implement. The second law states that a robot must follow rules given to it by a human, lest it disobey the first law (Marcus 110). This law seems a lot easier to implement than the first law. Essentially, it is an "if-then" statement. In code, an if-then statement refers to a logical condition. In this case, there are two if then statements. The first being, "if the order is given by a human, then obey." Second, "if this order is against law one, then don’t obey." This is the most straightforward of the rules, as simple logic is required to carry it out. The third law is an abstract logical statement, which would be even more difficult to program correctly. A robot must not let itself fall into harm, assuming it doesn’t disobey law one or two.
Coming to a logical conclusion based on a situation is, to me, more complicated than you may think. I can’t even begin to think how my brain might take in the thousands of contextual hints to decide if someone might fall under harm, and to think a robot could do it is beyond me. Perhaps technology simply has yet to advance to that point, but if humans can’t even understand how a brain processes this information, then how can it possibly be implemented artificially without groundbreaking technology or research? I can understand how a bot may look at a chess board and check mate in two turns: it simply runs through every possible outcome and finds the best solution. The real world is very different and has, among other things, three dimensions rather than two. A neural network may recognize a car, it can recognize a car is in a ditch on the side of a road, but can it recognize that a human may be in danger?
We don’t yet fully understand how the human brain even works. How could a human program a neural network process all possible outcomes of a real-world situation, then pick the most effective action to complete a task based on human morals? Teaching ethics to an artificial intelligence is like asking a three-year-old armed with seven toothpicks and a spool of string to climb Mt. Everest. He doesn’t have the proper tools, he may realize the task is difficult, but is incapable of understanding how difficult. For now, letting the child grow up and arming him with better tools is all we can do. To try to control a neural network in a similar fashion of how a human can control their own impulses will require time, research, and understanding. Without a code of ethics, artificial intelligence is back to square one: learning through example, even if the example is terrible. Being currently unable to give AI a moral code, or any sort of bias, is a major issue. The logical nature of AI prevents it from understanding any sort of gray area on its own.
Expert Opinions on AI
Elon Musk, owner of SpaceX and Tesla believes that artificial intelligence is being or will be weaponized by technological superpowers such as Russia, China, and even USA. He states that such rash weaponization could lead to World War III, and from there spiral out of control (Browne). As technology adapts, there is no telling what it may choose to adapt to. Given that artificial intelligence can change behavior by just recognizing a pattern should easily prove that. The unpredictability inherently posed by trying to make artificial intelligence act more like a brain (that is, through pattern recognition) lets it become an unstable threat (Browne).
Musk’s biggest worry is that, if World War III is caused by artificial intelligence autonomously wreaking havoc on an enemy, is that such a war will become automatic. The Geneva convention will no longer apply - even if a weaponized artificial intelligence does know what the Geneva convention is, whether or not it decides to follow those rules is up to its creator. Musk’s concern is voiced in a tweet:
(WWIII) May be initiated not by the country leaders, but one of the AI's, if it decides that a prepemptive [sic] strike is most probable path to victory (Musk).
Even if a superpower harnesses the ability to weaponize artificial intelligence, when would their weapon know to stop? How would it know not to attack certain superpowers? Currently, given the apparent inability to code ethics or grey areas, it would seem that trying to do so would prove inefficient. Programmed ethics would need to be so complicated that perhaps it would make the weapon ineffective, and what’s the point of an ineffective weapon? As technology gets more advanced, it also gets more complicated. The more complicated it gets, the harder it is to understand. From this perspective, it becomes easy to see technology as an entity separate from humans, and human understanding.
Leo Marx, professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology shares a fear similar to Elon Musk’s. While Marx is not quite as concerned with the damage technology may do, he fears technology as being viewed as, for lack of a better word, unstoppable. Seeing technology in such a light may prevent us from understanding, or even wanting to try to understand it. If you don’t want to understand it, then it becomes even more autonomously hazardous. At that point, technology becomes its own being:
As for the hazardous character of the concept of technology, here I need only say that I am not thinking about the weaponry or the physical damage wrought by the use of any particular technologies. The hazards I have in mind are conceptual, not physical. They stem from the meanings conveyed by the concept of technology itself, and from the peculiar role it enables us to confer on the mechanic arts as an ostensibly discrete entity – one capable of becoming virtually autonomous, all-encompassing agent of change (Marx 18).
Artificial intelligence can easily be a big threat, especially when it is given its own room to think and draw its own conclusions based on given information. Any information given to it is hard to control, especially when a neural network is given, for example, an entire popular social media site to browse for patterns or information. When a neural network is told "better yourself based on this information," it may pick up on patterns it wasn’t meant to see, and adapt to an alternate objective. It may feel the need to extend past its original database and grow even further. Giving rules to a neural network may be too limiting or not limiting enough, or perhaps enable it to do more than it was intended to do. It seems the only way to truly limit artificial intelligence is to limit the processing power it is given to work with, or by telling it exactly what to do. Unfortunately, as autonomous artificial intelligence is being experimented with, truly limiting a neural network seems like it may be an impossibility. Letting artificial intelligence have its own playground to run around in could present many dangers, especially in a playground that doesn’t have a formal fence.
There is importance in remembering that, although a neural network may be able to produce thousands of small computations per second, it still can’t recognize situations as well as humans can. Most artificial intelligence simply does what it is told to do. Given plenty of examples, an AI can be taught to understand very niche situations, and nothing else. Comparatively, humans can understand nearly any situation at a pace unmatched by technology, and without the need of millions of hand-picked examples. If we are capable of understanding abstractions at a rate both higher and faster than computers are capable of, then what’s stopping us from understanding technology?
Rhetorical Analysis
        While talking to an audience, considering their opinions is vital to influence their decisions. At the risk of sounding like a sociopath, manipulation is incredibly important when trying to convince a person or group of people. In my case, it was trying to get people to use MAP.com. To accomplish this goal, I chose creating a Twitter page, and writing an op-ed.
        The op-ed was the easier choice of the two, mainly because I had a lot of practice writing in similar formats since high-school. Every week, a paper was due in which I had to create and defend an opinion, and back it up without any bias. This is perfect for an op-ed, which is essentially just that. Giving facts and commentary about an item without dissuading people from accepting it. In this case, I don’t want to dissuade people form using MAP.com. Instead, whether it is used by whoever may read the op-ed, I want the reader to feel like they would use MAP if they were in the position of a student.
        To go about doing this, I had to express the weaknesses and strengths of the website, while at the same time overshadowing the weaknesses. My main method here is that whenever I bring up a weakness, I try to put a positive spin on it by using a strength. Not only does this show both pros and cons, but it negates the cons while simply bringing up new information. If MAP, as an organization, wishes to have its website become mainstream in the long run, then there can’t be glaring negative attributes associated with it, without at least some sort of feature that compensates for it. Using this technique kills two birds with one stone. It influences an external audience who may not have known about MAP beforehand, and strengthens a project proposal by "hiding" the weaknesses under the carpet that is accessible features.
        In choosing the Twitter page, I chose that option because I follow several Twitter accounts that advertise both subtly and humorously. I suppose learning from that, and knowing their audience (which I am more than likely a part of), which is the same audience MAP will be catering to. Since I am part of the audience, I used myself as a reference to distinguish what would work and what wouldn’t work on a Twitter page. I have a list of some rules I considered when I made the mock Twitter page for our organization, and created a few mock tweets for the page.
        My primary rule is that a company’s Twitter page shouldn’t be used to advertise. As far as I am aware, no one in my demographic really likes advertisements. If anything, they like the content of the advertisement. If the advertisement has humor, they’ll enjoy the humor. If the advertisement is cool, the viewer will appreciate that. If the ad is done right, it will connect its idea or content to it’s brand. These kinds of advertisements are usually seen in commercial breaks or on various websites like Facebook or YouTube. Twitter, however, is very different. Since advertising tries to sell you on a product, being followed on Twitter shows that someone is already sold on the product, and no longer need to be advertised to. At this point, they are probably following you to be informed or entertained. Since Twitter can be easily controlled by the user, they can avoid anything they don’t willingly want to see. I can’t think of any logic for someone to follow a Twitter account that advertises themselves directly. What I’m saying is, advertising to your own followers. It is not only useless, but it will drive away people who already follow you.
        My second rule is to avoid memes. As funny as memes can be, it is very rarely funny when a corporation tries to use a meme. I personally see it as a company trying to relate to the "meme demographic." I’ve noticed that this approach is especially horrendous when a company’s demographic is by no means younger people, who are most likely to enjoy that sort of content were it not from a company trying to sell their product by trying to draw in a demographic that is probably aware of the company’s strategy.
         The posts I made on the Twitter page were all made to inform about things that were fully related to MAP’s goals. The three main types of posts were a contest, a "fact of the week," and website status posts. I felt these were the best options as they didn’t advertise, but only informed about MAP. No memes were used either. As I said before, people will want to follow a Twitter page to be informed or entertained. I tried to do the entertaining bit by including obscure facts about language, which is what the MAP website is aimed to help with in the first place. The other two posts were informational, with one being a subtler advertisement. The more informational posts were ones that informed about important website status. These included website downtime and new features after website updates. The subtle advertisement, being the contest, was to publicize our website by having followers retweet a post, which would show up in other people’s feeds who may not follow MAP. It’s not MAP advertising directly, but instead is our followers advertising for us. This kind of advertising isn’t as intrusive as "normal" advertising, and may even reach people who haven’t heard of MAP.
        In my two choices for public writing, I put an emphasis on ethos for both. If the main point of the writings were to convince people to use our website, then convincing them that we know what we are doing with the site’s direction and features was the most important portion. If we don’t make our aspirations for the website looks good, then we don’t give any credibility to ourselves, a faceless company at first glance. If we can create a good impression of the company through our product, then people are more likely to trust our judgement, and therefore our ideas to help them. Though the two mediums can relate with ethos, they differ in their use of pathos and logos. For the op-ed, I decided logos would be more of an important factor than pathos. I also expect the type of person to read an op-ed is more interested in what our site can do to get a feel for their own expectations of us. I imagine that a campus principal is more likely to read about MAP through an op-ed than a Twitter page, logos is vital to giving them an idea of what our website is.
        As for the Twitter, page, pathos is a much better choice than logos. Since the followers are likely following to be informed about the status of the website, they don’t really need to be given any reasons to use our website. At this point, it would be giving them reasons to continue using our website. Providing some entertainment, even just small obscure facts about language, acts as filler for when there is no major news related to the website. I think of it as a reminder that we exist. The website updates are more important than the entertainment, however. These announcements serve to let people know what is happening on the website, such as new features or site downtime. This information could be vital to some people under certain circumstances, so giving people a way to know about this is important to keep people in the loop. It also lets professors know when the site will be down, and if they will need to, for instance, postpone an assignment for that reason.
        The subject matter of Modern Bohemia seems to be a sort of lounge, with three figures and various furniture and decorations. All the furniture seems to be expensive, especially considering the time the painting was made. A woven lounge chair, a patterned carpet, a couch, and the flowers would need to be replaced regularly to keep up with that sort of bloom. It’s a little hard to tell with the art style having ‘little detail’ but there also seems to be a small statuette in the top right corner resting on top of a drawer of some sort. In the opposite corner, the books are mostly red and blue as well, the lounge seems to be an ideal place to hang out with all your rich friends. The color choice has very saturated colors, mostly composed of red and blue. The figure at the top left looks to be a writer or an artist, but since it looks like he is only writing/sketching on a single piece of paper, I’d say it is more likely that he is an artist. The bottom left figure almost proves my theory that top left is an artist. The nude model is exactly that – a model for the artist to practice his craft. The top right figure seems to be reading a book. He is concentrated on reading, and not the nude model, the artist, or the very distracting color scheme. The final figure looks to be an ordinary woman. Ordinary, as in, fitting in with her surroundings as a fellow rich person, and possibly another model to be painted by the lone artist. Maybe the painting itself is one of Kirchner’s studio. Or any good studio, for that matter. One with models, books, paint, and plenty of expensive furniture. A vast source of fuel for any sort of creativity, this looks to be an ideal place for studying, making, or being part of art.
        The medium is oil on canvas, which is likely not uncommon for the period. I think what the artist was trying to do here was portray a sense of richness, since ‘high art’ paintings generally owned by rich people if they’re not already in a museum. So far, it seems that Ernst is trying to imply that the painting should be showing an inherent sense of value, in the monetary sense. While the materials are relatively inexpensive, the art they create is expensive.
        The form of the painting seems to be very angular. There seems to be little depth, which is probably just a creative choice of the artist, which goes with the overall style and color choice. Other than the red and blue, there seems to be a use of greens, yellows, and pinks for the walls and figures. The reader, woman, and nude model have a pink skin color, while the artist has inexplicably green skin. Perhaps he is green to highlight that he is the only figure in the painting who is creating something. The walls are chiefly green and yellow, while the statue and the books are also red and blue.
        As far as context goes, I’m no historian so I don’t have the best view on the time the painting was made, 1924. Fortunately, the Minneapolis Institute of Art has me covered for some context. The painting itself was made during Kirchner’s ‘Tapestry Period.’ The art style uses intense colors, painted vertically and horizontally, in a similar fashion to how a tapestry is woven. In 1904, Kirchner and a few other artists founded Die Brucke, an expressionist art movement with the intent to dissect a grandiose lifestyle filled with passion, luxury, and freedom.
        The MIA seems to explain the meaning really well. Kirchner was attempting to dissect the lifestyle he deemed grandiose in his own Die Brucke movement. The artist has more than one model to paint, assuming the woman in the white dress is also a model. Meanwhile, the reader has plenty to read, with a large amount of books as a supply, with plenty of variety between blue and red books. All of these components give a scene of a pursuer of the arts with plenty of things to do. There seems to be no lack of activities for each.
        The painting consists of a line of birch trees, and two main figures. Pink flowers adorn the trees, while yellow and red flowers line the path going through the ground, and a canopy of leaves covers the top of the painting. The figure on the left is a woman wearing warm colored clothes, and lacks any sort of covering for the front of her chest. A blue band across her waist balances the rest of the warm colors. She stands leaning on one of the trees, appearing to be approaching the figure on the right slowly or cautiously, perhaps trying not to bother or interrupt him. She does a pretty good job of blending in with the painting, as her pink clothes match the pink flowers on the trees. The flowers seem to be extending from her reach, all the way to the back of the canopy. The flowers lining the path are also mainly growing at her feet. The figure at the bottom right is a man, who, instead of wearing warm colors and standing is sitting and wearing cool colored colors, and is in a relaxed, established pose, while hunched over and playing a sitar. A red headband balances the rest of the coloring of his clothes. The colors around him are analogous, as are the colors around the woman. The man is surrounded by grass, and the woman is surrounded by the warm colors of the flowers she seems to be commanding. The slightly pink color on the birch trees implies that the lighting of the scene is in the afternoon. The shade given off by the leaves, and the shadows on the birch trees also imply that the time of day is not afternoon, and is either morning or night. Like stated earlier, the coloring on the birch trees imply that the painting is later in the day, instead of earlier. The scene of the painting is in a birch forest, where the woman seems to be more in her element than the man does. Since the leaves are green, the season must be no later than summer, and the flowers seem to imply that the season is actually earlier than summer, in the spring.
        This painting is oil on canvas. The paint appears splotchy, an interesting choice, and in my opinion, very visually appealing. The choice of medium fits this painting well, as the style and color choice are easily meshed as a very natural, spring-like scheme.
        The form in the painting show an opposition of the two figures. One is standing straight, while the man is bent over his instrument. While the woman is looking at the man, obviously aware he is there, the man might not be. His sole focus seems to be on his instrument, not at all on her. Not to mention the sound he is producing with his sitar/guitar also adds to his obliviousness to the woman – the sound he is producing gives the woman extra room to sneak up on the man.
        The context might simply be in the name. The piece could have been commissioned by this Canto XI, or someone who wanted to give Canto XI a gift – a purchased artwork from Brangwyn. This may be completely wrong, but the name of the painting seems to be vaguely Indian. Since the instrument looks to be a sitar, this also adds to my theory.
        From what I can figure out, there may be two meanings, one more mundane than the other. The more mundane meaning would be a woman listening to a man play sitar, perhaps as a wife. The man doesn’t know of her presence, which the woman might want. In the second possible meaning, the woman might be inspiration personified. Being able to apparently command nature, she may also be giving the man inspiration. 
        Armajani’s work is a mostly cubic sculpture. Its base components are glass, copper, wood, paint, a rug (fabric), a char and table (wood), and a light fixture. There seem to be three main pieces of this sculpture. The first part is a rectangular prism, using copper as the edges, and glass windows as the side faces. The bottom of this portion is wood, and the top face of it has no material – it opens to allow the second portion through. The second portion is also a rectangular prism, but is a lot more complicated than the first portion. The bottom 2/3 of this prism is plain glass and copper, much like the first portion, but taller and skinnier. However, two beams of copper line a side of one of the faces, vertically. They form an opening in the glass, allowing for two green slats of wood, which seem to be doors, to open – inwards and one outwards. These two doors appear to be too thin to close properly – if they were in a closed position, they would leave a large vertical gap between each other. The top third of the second prism is where it gets complicated. Two steel ‘frames’ exist on either side of the top third, each made of copper and are rectangular. They bear a resemblance to a window on a house, which goes with the door on the bottom portion of the sculpture. Above the windows, a copper bar sections off the top 1/5 of the prism, where there are two more window-like frames. This time, however, the windows are slightly larger and are on the remaining two sides. To give a better picture, if the lower windows were on the north and south walls of the second prism, the higher two would be on the east and west walls. One of the windows has orange and yellow fabric near it. The appearance of this fabric is spikey. This gives the two windows an appearance as if they were on fire. The other window has what looks to be orange graffiti on it. Finally, on top of the larger prism are two more rods of either wood or copper. The two rods intersect one another, forming an ‘X’ suspended above the prism. One of these rods has fabric on it very similar to the higher windows, again giving it the appearance of being on fire. Hanging from the center of the ‘X’ is a whitish brown string/wire, whose length is about half of the height of the prism. Hanging from this string is a light bulb, and two brown ‘arcs,’ which make a shape that looks like this: (), except rotated 90 degrees. In the middle of the arcs is the light bulb. The two arcs appear to also be on fire. There is another item hanging from the ‘X’ near one of the ends of the rods – a white birdcage. The third portion of this sculpture is a staircase, without the ‘rungs’. It goes through the side of the first prism, and has two bars where rungs could be. The taller prism has some interesting items inside of it. A wooden chair/table, five mattresses, a shoe (under one of the mattresses) and two pillows on top of different mattresses. The larger prism has items in it as well – a rug and a painted white rocking horse, likely made of wood. The horse has the words ‘be good’ written on its hind leg. The tall prism is resting on the mattresses and furniture, making it slant toward the staircase.
        The sculpture seems to be pretty chaotic. It looks like a house, which is on fire. The fire would most likely be originating from the light fixture, as it is the only source of heat or probable cause. The horse appears to be trapped in this blazing house, unable to escape even though it can see the outside through the glass walls. It could try to go through the door, but the staircase would likely get in its way, blocking the only chance of escape. The birdcage, if the fire is left unattended, will likely fall. Fortunately, the cage has been opened allowing whatever was in it to escape. I think that this is a juxtaposition of captivity. We think of ourselves as, to some extent, free. However, in the sculpture, there is no escape of the fire, yet the birdcage is open, allowing whatever was inside freedom.
        John Waters’ blue plate special is a photograph of food on a plate, on a placemat, on a tablecloth. Before looking at the plate and its contents, it’s probably better to get the simpler details out of the way first. The tablecloth has a gingham pattern, with two differently shaded blue lines. The darker line is vertical, and each line is equally spaced. The second set of lines, the lighter blue, are vertically and are also equally spaced. When the two lines overlap, they make a shade of blue even darker than the dark blue lines. Where no lines overlap, there is white. On top of the tablecloth is a placemat. It has beveled edges, and is white. It has a rectangular shape, and looks to match the dimensions of the picture, albeit at a smaller proportion. On top of this placemat are a set of generic silverwares, a napkin, and the place. The napkin is to the right of the plate, and has a rectangular shape. On top of the napkin are a knife and a spoon. The knife is on the left half of the napkin, and the spoon on the right half. The blade of the knife faces the plate, to the left. As the knife is slightly taller than the napkin, it does not rest fully upon it. On the left of the plate is the fork, prongs facing upward. It does not rest on any sort of napkin, and instead rests on the placemat. Now for the plate. The plate has a wide variety of foods on it, all of which looks subjectively [sic] disgusting and/or unappealing. Starting from top to bottom, the foods are as follows: a red/orange beet root, yam roots, carrot roots, two raw potatoes with several eyes, turnip roots, onion roots, and uncooked raw, small meat cuts. From my untrained eye, it looks like the meat cuts would be undesirable even if cooked. The plate itself is ceramic, and glazed in a glossy blue paint. The edges of the plate have a square/chain design on it.
        The entire photograph is visually conflicting. Everything besides the plate is some shade of blue, even the silverware has a very slight blue hue. That, or it’s white, which can technically be a shade of blue. Speaking of blue, the title of this photograph gives a lot of context. According to a quick google search, a ‘blue plate special’ is the name of a dish served at some restaurants. A blue plate special is typically a cheap meal, and isn’t constant – it usually changes day to day. I think a cheap meal is a perfect description for this photograph. Everything in this photograph looks cheap. The tablecloth is generic looking, the tablecloth looks like it came in a pack of 100, the silverware looks heavily used and stained – not shiny or silvery at all. The plate looks like the most expensive item in the picture, but even so it looks inexpensive. It is difficult to tell from the photograph, but it may even look like it is made of blue plastic rather than porcelain, giving credence to all the contents of the picture being cheap. Now for the food. All of the food on the plate is nothing but dregs of normal food. They are all either roots, or meat. All of the food is raw, and all of it is probably the most undesired part of each respective food. I’d rather eat a carrot than the roots of the carrot, and the same goes for the rest of the food. Like the rest of the image, the food is probably ridiculously cheap. That being said, I think that the nutritional value of the food on the plate is maybe equal or better than a ‘normal’ blue plate special, but still very undesirable. Perhaps the unhealthy/cheap food from a normal blue plate special should look just as undesirable as the plate, as it is less healthy. If I was forced to eat a blue plate special, assuming it is unhealthy, or the food pictured in the photo, I’d choose the food in the photo, just so long as the meat doesn’t carry any disease, being uncooked and all.
Chapter 3-4 Reflection
Reading chapter 4, I was surprised at how technical defining death is. There seems to be a lot of semantics surrounding it, even though I’ve always viewed it as a simpler concept. That said, all four approaches seem to be different enough to deserve their own theory, and still make sense. The only thing that bothers me about these definitions is that while three out of four theories focus on the results of death, but one seems to focus on what might cause those concepts in the first place.
Irreversible loss of vital fluids is the only one of the theories that can cause death directly. The loss/stagnancy of vital fluids will indeed cause death. In an imaginary timeline of someone’s lifespan, this theory is the only one of the four that can take place before/during death. Given that there are many causes of death, this theory does not have to mean someone has died, and could show that someone is dying – not actually dead.
The second theory, Loss of soul from the body, while also being the least empirical of the four, differs the most. Currently, humans are incapable of measuring souls, whether they exist or not. I’m also assuming that souls are deemed inherently unscientific, and would be rejected as an official means of judging one’s vitality. With that out of the way, this theory would be a sign that someone is/has been dead. This is what a means of measuring death should be – something that clearly defines if someone is dead.
The last two are the most empirical, and they are also the result of death. The human body’s loss of ability to function and permanent loss of consciousness are fully viable in the determination of one’s vital state, both being a result of death.
Chapter 1 Reflection
In chapter one, the story of how the two sides of the family couldn’t decide on a funeral for their grandmother stood out to me. My main issue is that the funeral shouldn’t have been such a point of contention. I see it as missing the point of a funeral if you’re getting angry over how it is performed. I see the point of funerals is to give your final goodbyes to someone. As death can be unexpected at times, the guilt missing the chance to say goodbye when they were alive can be mitigated if given the right means – which in my opinion is what a funeral is given for.
My view of what a funeral should be is, of course, just an opinion – and the story in the book is meant to portray more than that. The main issue with the funeral was due to religious views. As I understand it, Catholicism requires that someone needs to die sinless to get to heaven as soon as they die. Otherwise, they will live in purgatory until their soul has atoned for their sins. To cut to the chase, it is best to absolve the one’s sins before they die. If this isn’t done, a longer time in purgatory will be spent to absolve what wasn’t absolved before death.
I would equate the scenario in the book to this belief clashing with another belief. I it is unknown if the one dying is catholic or not, the catholic side of the family would want to absolve sins, but the other side would not – especially if they aren’t catholic. Both sides of the family want what is best for whoever is dying/has died, but in doing so they won’t be able to compensate for each other, as I am only to assume compromise wouldn’t allow ether side to be happy. It would seem there is no good solution that would benefit both sides of the family without either side being unhappy about something. I suppose that’s the point of compromise, but as I said before, compromise doesn’t really have a place to fit between, say, Lutheranism and Catholicism.
Second Paper – Part I
        In June of 2016, Canada passed a bill allowing patients to legally request assisted suicide (BBC.com). This change was brought about by a bill to do just the opposite – to ban doctors from helping those who wished to die to do so, to the best of their ability. When the supreme court struck down the bill, it opened the gateway for the new law, to allow euthanasia, to be passed.
        This law is not completely inclusive, however. It will ensure that only those with terminal illnesses, or patients in a great amount of pain, can opt to be euthanized (BBC.com). The bill goes into much greater detail than that, but describing all the technicalities would surely take too long, and is not the focus of the paper – to explore the morality involved in assisted suicide.
        It’s easy to look at the major principle behind medical schools – do no harm, and assume that it implies keeping the patient in the best possible state of health, and avoid death at all costs. This principle should only be applied to "most" patients – those who are not terminally ill or in unyielding amounts of pain. At what point is "doing no harm" harmful to a patient?
        This question is perhaps one of the most relative questions of all time. It depends heavily on the case, the patient, and their affliction. There is no way a single rule or list of rules can quantify such a question. In the first amendment, congress spent copious amounts of time trying to define a line between obscenity and art. After tremendous time was put into deciding how to identify the difference between art and pornography, Justice Stewart realized that defining it will not work – it’s an arbitrary endeavor. Instead, he summed it up by saying "I shall not today attempt further to define the kinds of material I understand to be embraced within that shorthand description; and perhaps I could never succeed in intelligibly doing so. But I know it when I see it... (Linder)"
This is by far one of the most important concepts in defining moral lines. It’s near impossible for most things, and trying to create a line is inherently arbitrary. Thus, not defining a line, and instead realizing that it is incredibly relative, is the best answer. This concept carries over into many things, especially euthanasia. A clearly written list of rules and regulations can’t possibly account for every single situation. Such a list would be impossible to finish.
Part II
        The amount of relativity when it comes to death certainly does not stop at doctor-assisted suicide. It would seem a clear majority of topics related to death come with a high level of uncertainty, both in definition and morals. There should be no question that someone rich in health and positive mindset wishes to remain alive. When it comes to the death penalty, there is no exception.
As is the case with euthanasia, the final decision is mostly, if not completely, dependent on the circumstances. As discussed earlier, this is essentially impossible to quantify. If the idea is carried over from before, that it really comes down to the judgement of one person to decide what the outcome will be. This is absolutely unacceptable. As people are inevitably biased in different ways, this carries over to an inequality in the punishment people receive. When it comes to life, there should be no question as to whether someone is receiving a punishment they deserve. While this itself is already morally gray, the fact that wrongful punishments can and are should be testament that, perhaps, capital punishment is inherently flawed.
That said, capital punishment does its best work as a deterrent. Loss of life works best as an inhibitor of crime to some extent. The only problem with this is that capital punishment must be enforced to deter crime. If it isn’t enforced, then there is no worry about losing your own life because of, say, taking someone else’s life (BBC.com).
Even as a deterrent, another group of people needs to be considered – the group that no longer cares. It seems that a lot of people who no longer care about losing their life are willing to go to great lengths to fulfill whatever they want to do. Many school shooters fall under this category. One of the main worries is that they want the fame or attention other school shooters get. As broken as their logic may be, they want to get the recognition even if it means losing their life.
Part III
It seems that many concepts surrounding death, namely capital punishment and doctor-assisted suicide, are perhaps the grayest of morally gray areas. It essentially boils down to opinion on what constitutes an appropriate scenario for either of the two concepts. It should be no surprise that death is also relative. Relative might be a bit of a stretch, however. Perhaps a more precise definition is that death is hard to define. This difficulty also leads to a lot of uncertainty. Death, as a concept, should be much simpler than concepts surrounding it. However, there are still times when arriving at a clear definition of death is difficult.
From 2003 to 2008, five hospitals have wrongly declared patients to be dead a total of five times (BBC.co.uk). Of course, to realize that these patients were wrongfully declared dead, information from when they were (not legally) alive showed their non-demise. A few things are noticeable here. First, it should be harder to prove someone was alive at one time. The information that the past and present have is the same, so why did the information prove that they were alive only after they were declared dead? Given that there are in fact clear "rules" that help doctors define death, mistakes like this should absolutely not happen if the doctors are being careful. As it would seem, they are not being careful. "These are cases where doctors haven't spent enough time confirming death. The vast majority of diagnoses are obvious and clear and there are very few exceptions (BBC.co.uk)."
The issue seems to lie in doctors not taking the time to ensure the status of a patient’s life. Rather than death being hard to define, it is apparently a case of not being careful enough. This might arise from constant exposure to death. Once a doctor is desensitized to death, they may not care ass much to ensure a patient’s status.
Chapter 6 Reflection
While reading chapter 6, I was very torn between empathetic logic and morals. As an example of ill newborns, a family didn’t want their newborn to receive an easy life-saving treatment because he had Down syndrome. I’ve always been torn about subjects like these. Both sides of the argument are very different. One is rooted in ethics, the other logic.
Based on how it was phrased in the book, this child would need constant attention just to live on a day to day basis. Given the circumstances, and the fact that this child’s parents already have other children, the decisions whether or not to unblock the intestines is a difficult decision to make. A sociopath’s decision is obvious: the baby will take numerous resources, but may not even be able to return any of that investment - even emotionally. You already are taking care of other children, and to take care of this one would likely more than double the amount of care needed for your family. Furthermore, would the child be happy? If the baby understood its situation, what would their choice be?
Now, morally, the decision is obvious. The child has a right to life, just as you do. Stripping him of that right because of something the baby can’t help is outrageous. The fact that the parents said it wasn’t fair to treat the baby because it would be "unfair" to their other children is equally terrible. I believe that refusing a baby’s treatment because he is lacks any amount of cognitive function is inhuman and sociopathic. I am probably missing a lot of details that would influence my way of thinking about this, but I would side with morals and give my consent for surgery.
Artist Statement
        For this project, I photoshopped the scene of Beloved’s conception from the book Beloved. I chose this scene because I have an admiration for anything I find unsettling. To me it’s simply fascinating how something completely unthreatening can still invoke a fear response. My main motivation was to see if I can replicate this, and to perhaps dissect why unsettling images are, well, unsettling. I imagine the process of trying to make something unsettling will help me learn a thing or two on why such things are unsettling.
        The other reason I chose this scene was because Beloved is a very effective anti hero in the book. She helps Paul D to rectify his ‘rusted tobacco tin’ heart, and helps Denver to leave the house after several years of isolation in the house. I believe is an analogy for slavery. More specifically, the history behind slavery, and how it acts as a catalyst to amend racism. The sad thing about this is that, I don’t think racism would be this bad (or maybe not exist at all) if slavery never happened. In that sense, Beloved existing as a character was based on a travesty of a previous event, Sethe killing her daughter so she wouldn’t need to live as a slave. Slavery and Sethe’s perceived act of goodwill would have never happened in an ideal world, but those events both help heal the wounds they caused. Slavery, in this sense, lets us realize that slavery is a completely morally bankrupt act propelled by racism. Learning about it isn’t the easiest thing to endure, but it aids us in learning how not to repeat it, and avoid racism altogether by learning its roots. I wanted to recreate the "hard to endure" aspect of Beloved (the character) as an allegory for slavery by making something that isn’t easy to look at. That’s why I chose to attempt to recreate that scene from Beloved in a medium I’m comfortable with - photoshop (I use a program called GIMP instead of Photoshop but at this point photoshop may as well be a common noun/verb).
        My first attempt at the image was more or less successful. To be honest, I did not intend to have more than one draft, but the first draft just wasn’t working out for the vibe I wanted. I gave up on the first draft when it occurred to me that it would be difficult to salvage my vision on the scene without starting from scratch. If nothing else, it led me to better both apply and learn why unsettling things are unsettling. The other folder is just a library of images I used/might have used to make the image. Most are royalty free but some aren’t. I don’t plan on selling this image or showcasing it elsewhere so that shouldn’t be an issue.
In my submission for this project, I have a folder named ‘Inspiration and Reference’. In this folder are a few examples of creepy images. I’ll first explain why each of these images are unsettling. For the ‘bathroom’ image, there are a few things at play. The first is that, judging by the shadows behind the birds, the person who took that photograph is in the same room. The second is that bathrooms are already a place where I would argue that most people are inherently uncomfortable. While using a bathroom to either bathe or relieve yourself, you put yourself in a vulnerable state. I wouldn’t be surprised if this image’s scariness is partly due to what one would typically do in a bathroom, which puts them in a position of powerlessness. And that leads into what a common theme is for these types of images: empathy. Without empathy, I don’t think I’d get a terrifying vibe from any of these images. You put yourself in the shoes of the picture taker without even thinking about it, which giving you the visceral reaction of fear. The amalgamation of ‘bathroom’ is the vulnerability you get from using the bathroom, along with empathizing with the photographer who is in the same room with birds that are probably 4-5 feet tall.
The second picture, ‘lightman’ has a bit of the same things going on that ‘bathroom’ does. Specifically, the small hallway is analogous to the bathroom. The setting does create the same uncomfortable reaction as the bathroom, but does so differently. Rather than being a relatable setting, it ‘traps’ the photographer between the thing blocking the exit at the bottom of the stairs, and what you would imagine to be either a door or a warehouse. It’s surprising how much subtext there is in this picture (or what I imagine to be happening). The sign and the presence of the thing at the bottom of the stairs imply that the thing is threatening you, that you need to turn off the lights. What this also implies is that you are the last one to leave, and there is no one else around. Another key aspect of ‘bathroom’ and ‘lightman’ are that they portray solitude with something very abnormal or otherworldly. These images appear to not be planned, judging by the angle of the camera in ‘lightman’ not to be centered on the light man, and ‘bathroom’ with its use of flash in a poorly lit area. They are very spur-of-the-moment, and believable due to their low quality and "ameteur" composition.
The main aspects that I tried to carry over from these were the isolation and overall "poor" image quality. Of those two, the poor image quality made this project much easier. In the first draft of the image, I was limited to using pictures with a high fidelity. That is, pictures with a large resolution and good quality. Thanks to intentionally keeping the image at a lower resolution, this limit was lifted almost entirely. The other aspect, isolation, was utilized by using an open field with an emphasis on Beloved being the only living thing (other than plants) in that image. Other than that emphasis, I used an open field to accentuate the isolation. Frankly, I rely a bit heavily on pareidolia for seeing the figure as Beloved. That, and the hindsight that this is the scene where Beloved leans under the mulberry tree after emerging from the river.
I am somewhat pleased with how the final image turned out, as before I color corrected (read: made the image black and white) the colors didn’t give a consistent feeling to the setting. I included a non-color corrected version so you could see what I’m talking about. The reason I made the picture black and white was to match the technology of cameras from 1870 (when Beloved takes place) to better match the book. I did also adjust the brightness and contrast of the picture to look better, too. This process, in my opinion, made the image look a lot better. Though the picture itself looks of decent composition and overall quality, it isn’t as unsettling as I’d have liked it to be. That said, as a first try for this genre, I think it’s good.
The New Negro is not a Call to Action, but a Plea
        The New Negro by Alain Locke is meant to inform the black community about itself. Its overall goal is to raise awareness about the widespread group psychology among members of the communities, how it established itself, and, as a result, how unnecessary divisions between those groups can be mended. Locke explains how sub communities continued to divided themselves to such an extent that being in multiple demographics was practically frowned upon, even among the most niche communities. While this isn’t ideal, as these divided groups are not as helpful overall to the civil rights movement, Locke argues that these groups still show merit which lies in some of the most creative and influential musicians, artists, and poets who pioneered the Harlem Renaissance. Locke himself, having graduated from Harvard University in 1907, and receiving his Ph.D. eleven years later, was one of the first major scholars to dissect the Harlem Renaissance (Britannica).
        Locke’s first step is to summarize a rising, increasingly dominant mindset, characterized by the term ‘new negro.’ The new negro is, being a modern concept, unaccounted for by traditional views projected onto the black community. This mindset being one that more heavily advocates for civil rights by whatever means. Simply by announcing this concept, Locke does more than just show that the general mindset of the black community is pushing harder for their rights. The term underlines how dismissive and close-minded the outside views of the black community could be. The main perpetrators of this being those who study people, preferring to quantify them rather than accept them as an indication of change, or even formally recognize signs of change. One could argue that there isn’t any intention to undermine the group, as Locke explains that the change was by no means sudden. 
While gradual, slow change can be hard to notice, this does not excuse ignoring it after it’s been realized.
Before the ‘new negro’ concept began to materialize, and the black community wasn’t quite as divided, I believe it’s safe to say that a homogenized group of people will have more similar traits within itself compared to more specific/niche groups. After all, relationships are often based on similarities. It can be noted that with a group of people who might think and act similarly, it’s a whole lot easier to create blanket statements for that community. From this, a broader stereotype intended to apply to more people is as likely to appear, especially with a pre-existing bias against them. Locke goes in depth on how these stereotypes gave rise to the new negro, despite being tactically used to attempt to sedate their target.
As soon as a target becomes aware of what a stereotype tries to project, the behavior it tries to enforce, they know that they can deny that they are just that stereotype. As more people realize it, this reaction cascades farther until the stereotype is just the occasional character trait. At this point, the perpetuation of stereotypes are their own downfall. The rejection of these stereotypes by the same people who they are projected upon is the first step toward the new negro.
        The second step toward the formation of the new negro is in part due to the freedoms granted to them. As civil rights are being granted, especially (if not wholly) due to the end of slavery, the black community is granted the freedom to travel on their own accord. While the majority are still trapped due to the ever-looming presence of racism and entitlement of many from the white community, the appropriate channel for escaping from these areas is now legal. A gradual escape from these areas is all but expected. More varied populations are sure to ensue from here - a less concentrated community won’t share as many similarities as a concentrated one. Additionally, the influence of a different location when moving for whatever reason, whether it be to escape racism, poor conditions, or even stagnation is sure to play a part in a more varied, knowledgeable, and cultured population. The culture they bring, and the culture they find gives the community as a whole a broader pool of interests, groups, and history. Locke highlights this with his description of Harlem:
        Once a place like that is established, it becomes an optimal destination for people whose goal is to escape their condition - a welcoming refuge for those Harlem empathizes with. Locke once again acknowledges this race solidarity as a large part of why Harlem grew as quickly as it did, however unlikely it may have been. Harlem became a place of solidarity, and a place where one could escape from racism, along with other poor conditions present elsewhere. At this point, the failure to recognize the new negro comes into play. Put simply, the whole of Harlem isn’t taken seriously as an advocate, or even a reason, for change. It’s seen as a temporary circumstance, resulting from the civil war. Locke explains why this can’t be the case after calling out the general tendency to see the call for change from communities like Harlem as a fad.
In other words, why would any revolutionary possibly be quelled by stagnation? The people are choosing spokespersons who want change just as much, if not more, than they do. Hypocrisy arises when oppressive forces emerge to silence the very change that they deny existence of.
One of the more subtle ‘increasing measures’ is the implication of stereotypes from inside and outside of the black community. A way of thinking arises from these implications. One might deny all of these stereotypes that try to hold them back, leading one to denounce his ideals or history once the stereotype is realized. Locke hypothesizes that this leads to disillusionment with one’s community. They want to deny that their personality can be boiled down to a stereotype, that they’re just a cog in the machine. So they begin to disdain the machine, too - the same thing they’re constantly, maliciously accused of belonging to. There isn’t much leeway for community once people start to seperate themselves from it. They want to leave behind what is holding them back from being above those stereotypes. The unfortunate part being that there’s not really anywhere to go from there. Locke explains this:
The unfortunate illusionary perception of a barrier between the two groups (generally, whites and blacks), has prevented them from reconciling, especially in the North (Locke). The new negro, however, realises this farce. They understand that the perceived wall from both sides can hinder their ability to socialize with the other ‘race’. Their goal becomes overcoming these walls however long that may take.
        The desire to be anything but the stereotype is what I’d argue to be the key factor in furthering the division of black communities at that time. This division is what hinders coordination between the sub communities. If one group fails to recognize the other on that account, then their common goal has little ability to unite them, especially when it’s prevalence is presumed to exist among all sub communities. After all, who would be against defending their own rights? Locke explains how this self-replicating desire for civil rights causes a "forced radical", an ideology held up by the expectancy of these communities. This push is what causes the advocating for rights among the communities, not just the unadulterated wish for the freedom you don’t yet have. It is this pressure that ends up fueling their hopes for equal rights.
What Locke hopes to achieve by writing this is to distill the desire for freedom into something inherent, and not something conformist. Having people realize what has become of their cause  may assist in reforming the shared roots of civil rights, and reiterate their shared roots in general.
The last thing Locke calls attention to in The New Negro is the art that the communities have produced. By calling attention to these productions of music, art, and poetry, he hopes to address any lack humanization accredited to these communities whether it be from inside or outside. Even though part of Locke’s philosophy was that African Americans should refer to their ancestry to get their inspiration for art, rather than have it be diluted by western influence, he still greatly praises the artistic achievement from Harlem (Britannica).
        Locke’s end goal is to make an appeal to his community. He logically explains where the disconnect in Harlem’s sub communities arise, and hopes to provide the tools to repair them by doing so. The new negro is a result of these disconnects. As forward-thinking and intelligent they may be, disparaging your roots is unwise. You can denigrate events that happened in the past, but to disparage them is a backwards route. He doesn’t tell the black community what they should be doing, as that is already happening. Rather, he urges them to realize the faults that may arise from their isolationist means of thinking, and furthermore to realize their roots are a means of unity, not division.
Ain’t I a Women? Review
        I think the most interesting thing about Sojourner Truth's 'Ain't I a Woman' speech is that, even though the speech seemed to have been mostly ad-libbed, it does a phenomenal job at appealing to its demographics. It addresses slavery and sexism both succinctly and passionately, and strikes at only what needs to be struck.
        Isabelle Baumfree, born near the end of 1797, was a slave until she escaped 1826 . Not only is this escape a feat in and of itself, but she did so with her baby daughter. Only two years later, she was able to win a court case against a white slaveholder to free her own son. It is worth mentioning that this was the first such case to be won with a female, black plaintiff and a white, male defendant (A&E Networks Television).
        Seventeen years later, in 1843, Isabelle renamed herself to Sojourner Truth, having been convinced that God wished her to spread inspiration and hope to other slaves. Since then she has far surpassed her original goal, as her message has reached a much wider demographic than all of the slaves she spoke to. This was done when she gave a speech, later named ‘Ain't I a Woman?’. The first time Sojourner Truth gave this speech was in 1851, at the Women's Convention. She had not planned to give a speech, but was apparently called to speak to a group of people, which is when her ad-libbed speech came to fruition (A&E Networks Television).
        Though her first speech was likely not recorded word for word, and instead reworded to fit an audience who needed to hear the message more. I would assume that the group of people who wanted her to speak were not as in need of the message compared to anyone outside of the event. I will be looking at the original transcription of this speech transcribed by Marius Robinson, a friend of Sojourner and attendee of the convention.
        The speech opens with a quick justification - a reason behind her words. It relays how women’s rights have become a talking point. Soon, women’s right and slave rights will, controversially, reach those who were born with freedom, and are often the enforcers of racist and sexist action. At this point, Sojourner’s hope is that those people, most likely white people, will listen to her reason.
        Now that she has started her speech proper, Sojourner takes apart the common "helpless woman" stereotype. She lists common tropes of how women always need the help of a man, and slams it by saying that no man has ever bothered to do any of these things for her. The basis of the helpless woman trope is, in my opinion, brought about by the feeling of superiority. As (white) men had basically all the say, it is not surprising that a stereotype putting them on a pedestal arose. However, despite the stereotype implying that women need the help of a man, and men are more than willing to oblige to assist their ‘weaker counterpart,’ Sojourner, as a woman, has never experienced these tropes for herself (Sojourner).
        After making the point that men haven’t pulled through on their end of the stereotype, she breaks the stereotype of women being frail. Having been a slave for almost 30 years, is conceivably not frail by any means (Sojourner). Further digging into that "men are superior and with great power comes great responsibility to help women" mindset, she ironically enforces the ‘woman stereotype’ on herself, intending to show that it does not hold up.
        Having disabled the stereotype, she moves on to her next points. Here, she takes common arguments by men about why women shouldn’t have the same privileges that they do. I should first mention that it was a common belief that men are, on average, much smarter than women. That said, she insists that, even if women are less mentally capable than men, why not allow women to use what intellect they have (Sojourner)? This feedback loop of a stereotype shouldn’t bar women from doing anything related to their interests. It should not be laughable to see a woman pursuing, for instance, the arts or maths.
        The next arguments she disembowels are based on a biblical standpoint, and at this point I want to make it clear why her arguments are as strong as the are. Rather than attacking offending viewpoints head on, she argues in favor of the argument’s base, but against the logical conclusion. She takes the basis of the argument, and turns the outcome on its head rather than attacking the outcome itself.
        The first biblical argument is that, since Christ is a man, women shouldn’t have rights. Not only is this a terrible, unstructured point to begin with, but Sojourner shows that Jesus’ conception had nothing to do with a man as a virgin birth (Sojourner). The only disconnect I can perceive here is that one might see God as a man. This is due in part to Jesus being a man, but more likely is that the pronouns used to reference god are he/him. I’d argue that they are he/him because such a reference is more dignified than using ‘it’.
        Finally, the last argument she confronts is that, since it was a woman who introduced sin, all women can’t be trusted to have their own decision-making ability. Despite being a completely sexist and generalizing argument, Sojourner still accepts the premises but grants a different conclusion. Even if all women are just as likely as Eve to eat an apple, then such an action can just as easy be reversed by women (Sojourner).
        It takes a great deal of articulative prowess to not only be able to argue an alternate conclusion to premises, but to do it unprepared takes much more eloquence. Sojourner strongly argues in favor of women’s rights with a call to action from men, and a call to logic from men. She not only dismantles the common pro-sexism arguments by introducing a different logical conclusion, but does so while encouraging women’s rights.
John Quixote
        Brave New World is often compared with Animal farm, and 1984 which was directly inspired by Brave New World (Huxley V). There is, however, an unrecognized addition to this trio: Don Quixote by Miguel de Cervantes. While Don Quixote is the warning showing a society becoming Brave New World, while Brave New World is a society that has already reached the Brave New World status. Brave New World and Don Quixote share the same message: stop progressing toward a creativity-suppressing dystopia.
        Don Quixote is inspired by a number of books in his personal library. He sees ordinary people become heroes by random or mundane events, or becoming a hero by going through "combats, battles, challenges, wounds, courtings, loves, torments, and other possible foolish-ness" (Cervantes 21). He begins to lose his mind and is encouraged by many of his friends to stop reading so that he regains his grasp of reality. He refuses, and keeps reading. He gets to a point where he wants to be the hero, and so, he saddled his horse, finds a poor sap to be his comedic relief sidekick, convinces Sancho Panza to come with him by informing him of the riches and fame that will result. Sancho accepts, leaves his home, and joins Don Quixote.
        Bernard is inspired to be a ‘Don Quixote’ by his less-than-satisfactory demeanor. He sees himself as different from the rest of the alphas, simply because he is shorter than his own kind. He starts to notice more physical characteristics such as Morgana’s unibrow, and consequently notices how he thinks differently from the rest when he sees the ocean is beautiful, and Lenina worries for him (Huxley 90). She thinks he has lost his marbles and convinces him to take soma so that he stops acting differently than what she thinks is correct - the only way people should act. When Bernard finally goes to the savage reservation, he meets John who is essentially the Bernard equivalent of the reservation. Both see themselves as apart from their society due to unalterable physical differences, and are outcasts because of this. John is a more extreme outcast, but only because the New Worlders are so heavily conditioned not to see petty differences such as height or race. Bernard asks John to join him when he goes back to the new world, offering him acceptance and a safer environment. John accepts, leaves his home, and joins the New World.
        Brave New World is the outcome of extreme silencing of imagination. As Mustapha, a very high authority of the New World, described it, they constantly pour wax over a rock until the rock is completely encased in the wax. In this example, the rock is imagination and creativity, and the wax is the result of conditioning and ignorance. Bernard still had traces of a rock showing. This led to more wax chipping away until Bernard is a free thinker, questioning the taboos and features of the New World. Due to this, he is forced to leave the new world as to not corrupt the corruption of the population. Mustapha explains that the reason for nerfing the minds of people even before they are born is control, and that the removal of anything literary such as Shakespeare is to prevent their population from being able to understand, and therefore spread, a majority of emotion (Huxley 219). John achieves the same result as Bernard and leaving the New World, but ends up suicidal after disgracing himself to the harsh reality of the New World (Huxley 259), much like Don Quixote does when he is finally defeated.
        Don is inspired by books to be different from the rest of the population. In this case, the priest and the barber represent the governing power seen in the New World. The two constantly try to ‘fix’ Don Quixote, even going to the extent of burning every single book in his library (Cervantes 52). Ironically, their plan backfires and Don thinks that a fictional enemy is trying to send him a message to stop foiling his plans (Cervantes 55). The barber and priest do not give up here, and they hire a group of people to show Don Quixote that he is not invincible like he thinks he is. Aptly named the Knights of the Mirror, they force Don to see himself as what he really is, or rather what they viewed him as: a disillusioned man, diluted by fiction and a threat to other people’s normality. They have finally succeeded in opening up Don’s eyes to the only way people should act, at least according to them. As soon as they take away Don Quixote’s imagination, he loses his will to live, and dies after seeing the harsh reality, that his world did not exist. This, juxtapositioned to how the New World behaves, shows how Don would have likely died twenty times over if he was forced to behave like the New Worlders behaved, or rather, didn’t behave.
        The burning of Don’s books shares a very tight similarity to the rules against books in order to prevent creativity and imagination present in Brave New World. While Don already has a very active imagination, the duo is hoping that removing the items that gave him such an imagination in the first place will fix him back to their standards. Brave New World already has people reformed to their standards, because there is no literature. Expressing imagination is near impossible, since their means of expressing imagination has been destroyed, limiting people to their own imagination, and eradicating the sharing of ideas whether or not they are against the government and ‘ideals’ of the Brave New World. Even Bernard realized this when he read Shakespeare for the first time, that his vocabulary limited his ability to express his feeling and his ideas (Huxley 219). By reading Shakespeare to him, John has recruited Watson as a free thinker, because Watson did not have the ability to think original poetry before this.
        When Don Quixote inspired Sancho Panza to join his quest for Dulcinea, he exemplifies how, in the early formation of such a society as Brave New World, free thinkers would recruit more free thinkers to rebel against the New World. When Don finally finds Dulcinea, she becomes recruited. Dulcinea, being a seemingly rational person joins Don’s cause. Rational, at least, according to the barber and the priest until she was ‘corrupted’ by Don in the end. Back in the Brave New World, John is an easy target to recruit since he has no conditioning and is already an outcast. And finally, Watson is also recruited as a free thinker by John, who reads Shakespeare to him. The reason this works is because Watson already pondered the reason for poetry. All he did was write propaganda for the Fordship, but was still curious if there was a deeper meaning to poetry than simply writing about how great something is, Ford in this case, in such a superficial manner that he was told was all anyone could write about in the first place. There had to be a deeper way to convey his feelings, but he did not know how to communicate such an idea until he heard Shakespeare’s writings, a prime example of what he wanted to do but could not. Before this, he only knew how to write about the greatness of Ford, and wanted to write something that introduced new ideas to a mind. Unfortunately, since he didn’t even know how to form new ideas, he had no way to go about writing new ideas. Fortunately, now that he did know how to write on his feelings from listening to Shakespeare, he was a threat to the New World and was consequently sent to Iceland, where all of the people who realize just how fake and artificial the New World is go. Even if Watson was able to display his ideas to the New World, it likely would have made no difference. Even when John literally yelled at their faces to get a grip on reality instead of running away by taking soma day and night, he was rejected, and anyone who heard his plea completely ignored it. It just goes to show how effective the New World is. The power does not take any chances, even if there is no threat. Aldous Huxley shows how difficult it would be to fix a dystopia this far into a reign.
        Aldous Huxley was worried about how society was increasingly becoming like his dystopia even before he had written Brave New World. His point was proven when, after his book was written, Hitler came into power and exemplified many aspect of a leader who would shape such a world as Brave New World. He restricted his state, and eradicated who he thought was not worthy of his state. Fortunately for everyone, he was defeated and did not pour wax over the rock, the rock being our world. As though he was inspired by Don Quixote, Hitler was also guilty of many book burnings in an attempt to force the world to forget the ideas of anyone who opposed him. The biggest difference of Hitler’s ideal world when compared to Huxley’s brave new world, is that there was no conditioning, and the people were forced into slavery, rather than wanting to be slaves due to ignorance of freedom and any other lifestyle enforced by the government in the New World. Other than book burnings and slavery, Hitler also tried to destroy anyone who he did not like - who he thought was too abnormal to exist in a perfect world, a world where only his ideals and opinions existed. When the Barber and the Priest burned Don’s library, they thought they were doing what had to be done to save Don Quixote from himself. Mustapha explained to John and Bernard that they had to keep books from being read to consequently preserve the goodness of their government, so that nobody could rise up from the masses and start a revolution. When Hitler was attempting to eradicate anyone he didn’t like, he thought he was doing good for the world, when in reality, he was just pouring wax over it, covering up anything he saw as an imperfection.
        Perhaps a point of inspiration for Don Quixote was Cervantes love for reading and books. The notion that he should ever not be able to read or write influenced the creation of the barber and the priest, who were against the imagination of Don Quixote. Through this, Don became a projection of Cervantes’ imagination, and if not that, then Don was no more than the essence of imagination, a more extreme example of the ability to think or to create a world within one’s mind, rather than be told what the world is and never to think about it as is seen in the New World, mainly exemplified by Watsons missing ability to write anything other than "Ford is cool, but you already know that" (Huxley 70).
        Don Quixote and Brave New World share the same themes and ideas. They exemplify why a government such as seen in the Brave New World would be a bad thing. Don Quixote shows how such ideas would become an enabler, the likes of which lead to more extreme ideas which lead the most extreme idea of the New World, while Brave New World shows a world where those extremist ideas already exist, have existed for a long time, and nobody cares since they are forced to share the same ideas as everyone else without question, whether or not they would agree with these ideas given the ability to think. While in the present, a vast majority of people could see that Brave New World is bad and limits pretty much everything, all the New Worlders know is their lifestyle, and literally nothing else, and are otherwise sent away so their ideas can only be shared with other free thinkers who have already had their eyes opened to the literal absent mindedness of the Ford society. The New World is very effectively keeping their people from thinking, and it shows when John, the savage, attempts to open people’s minds by throwing away their soma, yelling to stop taking it and open their eyes. The only reaction he gets is that they want soma, none of the people even think about what John says or what he is trying to convey. If the barber and the priest had their way, Don Quixote would have never had an imagination to begin with. If the New World had it’s way, Bernard - or anyone for that matter - would have never had an imagination to begin with.
Primary Research on Online Language Course Observations
        I wasn’t surprised to find that a large portion of online language classes are taken out of necessity. Despite the students who take it for easy essential studies credit, there are students who take an online class because that is their only option. Even then, there are students who have an even deeper reason behind their choice in an online course. The most likely reason is that a student simply does not have the time to attend an in-person class. Language classes can be the most demanding, as they require a large amount of practice through various senses. Having to attend a class on top of this may be overwhelming, giving the option of an online class more logical. These student are likely unhappy that they need to take an online language class rather than an in-person class, but have no other option.
        For this research, I compared the qualities that makes online classes similar to, and different from, in-person classes. I then took these inherent qualities and drew logical conclusions on how they can benefit and hurt students with different backgrounds on why they opted to take an online class. Most of these qualities negatively affected both parties to some extent.
        Though an online class may offer the benefits of less time needed to take the class, the reason behind choosing online classes is usually in spite of the inherent qualities of these classes. Many of these qualities are, unfortunately, negative for the students who want to take something away from the class. First, online classes lack a community experience. There may be opportunities offered outside the online portion, but if a student is taking an online class because they can’t attend in person, these opportunities may not be a viable means of learning.
        The reason that offline meetings are scheduled for online classes are mainly because of the lack of student-to-student, or even student-to-teacher interaction online courses offer. While not helping the lack of community experience like I said before, this also makes online classes more intimidating. Students don’t really get a feel of their teacher’s personality, and, as a result, the standards they’ll be help up to. The lack of communication here doesn’t help either. To ask a question to a teacher, you can send then an email with your question, or set up a meeting to discuss your question. This process may take a couple of days to proceed, which is way more than what is reasonable for a question to be answered, whether or not the student cares about the class.
        For the students who don’t care about the class, and the only reason they are taking the course is because a language credit is required, an online class is a no-brainer. It’s much easier, and requires less effort than an in-person class. This is because of how easy it is to cheat in these classes. Google translate is likely the primary resource of learning for these students. But can you really blame them? Their mindset on this may be that If they never plan on using a language, do you think they’ll prioritize learning it? Making it required reduces the time they have to put more resources into mastering their major. The student will only put into the course, and will gain very little from it.
        The added negatives of learning a language online certainly do not benefit these students whatsoever. Learning a language requires multiple senses to learn. Reading and writing it can be done very easily online, but hearing or speaking it is a different story. A single method of learning a language is in no way viable in trying to become fluent in it (Anne). Reading and writing do help, but they are only a piece of the puzzle. This also goes for students who want to gain something from the class but are taking it online. The reading and writing portion can easily be done online, but speaking and hearing requires a lot more effort on both the student’s part, and the teacher’s part.
        It would seem that online classes stunt the ability to learn a language overall. Their lack of human interaction and limited ability to teach make for a less-than-ideal experience for students. The students who don’t care about the course because their time is better spent doing something else might remember a thing or two, and the students who take an online class out of scheduling difficulties will take away less than they would had they taken the class in person.