Overshield! You may notice the rich district has no water tower… yeah… Some people just can't wait for secs. Gibson, you're so- hey, my carpety, carpety, carpety, carpety, carpet... You're so cute! Terrain generation makes it very hard to make bathrooms. I mistook the sunrise for a spider. Hey, Gibson… Bloop? Bloop… BLOOP! sUGaR CaNE!!! Only two more stars… then we've got a box truck! Gibson, don't ever put a bot on a segue with one wheel. Well… That plate is broken. Dude, really? 'Cause I'm doing swirly-whirls right now, and it's not bad. http://loosewaitfast.tumblr.com BigWhallopyAustralia2 Gibson, every day I give you a poem just by talking to you. It's your turn, it's your turn... slap me! There was a noodle on my fork. Gibson, sanity is a small price to pay for amazingness. Per…chickidy-ching! That's how it works. Milk 'em dry! I just wanna' know what a business email sounds like. Something wrong has happening. Dig-dug mode! Why is the lag like... lag? I don't run-dry, Gibson! But my fish tank is made of happiness… My mouth… I don't know, it's just like a blower. And I'm making appliances! Dude, I would have, like, a week of diarrhea to get fourkee! Oh… OHHH!!! … I bet everyone in my house heard me… Dumptruck, away! Bush entrance. Your dad is so awesome; he just leaves one night and doesn't come back. What were you doing?.. What does life feel like? But right now, I'm shaking… I don't know why! And by trying, you'll do it, and by you doing it, I'll be trying. Hey, check me out! I'm in a corner-oh… oh, I'm stuck. No, cleaning up dog vomit is *really* fun! Gibson, if you were me you would've said the same thing. You're right, we're both wrong, I'm sorry. (Power of Rock'nRoll) Why are they giving me so much health? Like, why do I need health? Oh, America, why was I walking away? I don’t know what you think about me, but I’m a responsible person. I need to get a house of my own so I can play video games. I feel like I should be commemorated for being so awesome. Gibson, I want you close to me. To be honest- right now I just really want pants. I’m wondering if that has anything to do with you. But I don’t have to wonder because there’s no wondering in this game. Ah man, that spittle was not happy in my throat. -wa It wasn’t! Poison doesn’t work unless you inject it into the body through fluidal holes. If you have glowing poop I’ll smear it on my walls- I just need something. So, here’s what’s going to happen… … *burp*… so, here’s what’s going to happen. I really need to eat this… yum, drugs. No, it isn’t- we’re both speaking in late speak. I wonder if it’s possible to over-dose on eye-drops And what, play with you dinkle-muffins again? Like, is he assaulting me- I can’t tell. And tress are concentrated Matt-purpose. Just two or three moe ronds. Ride ‘em, bike ‘em, kill ‘em, baby. That’s my motto. You just missed out on probably one of the most hilarious noises I've made this year. You know when Anders comes on, and you can barely hear his music. Don't ask me about all my drama, okay; I have issues. No respect. Brownies, brownies! I can play the game too. Do you have any, just like, regular ginger ale? Why does my plate look so much more bombastic than yours? *Mmh* It's not chipotle guacamole, but it's pretty good. *crunch* It's cause your lawn-chair is not optimized. Why don't you just make it work, huh? Why can't you make a working clock? Is that picture cross-sexual? Oops, freudian slip. Wait, you can’t!!! There's also sherbet in there! Why do women want to be fat everywhere but, like, their bodies? No, I stopped myself. I was going to be arrogant in a joke way, but then realized I was way over the line. No, just tickle me! Don't put flowers in my hair. There's a green streak in my sorbet. You embarrass my in front of the whole world, then make fun of my poop. Fart! My sister doesn’t rumble. Bowelicious I like chunky horses! Oh my gosh, I never thought I’d have a good time digging holes with you. I guess, whatever. Anders, your friend is, like, freaking out right now. Can you, like, get him out of my butt? Gibson, don’t add that one. No, it doesn’t make me shake; caffeine makes my brain work in a way I ~really~ enjoy. Woo! Romance and Captainhood! Ohhh, man, that broccoli is gonna' be a big problem. Krogans worshiped the stick that had balls, which penetrated things. True warriors fight with both mind, soul, and weapon... As one.  These bubbles have, like, wrinkles.  Wait, I was the one making the mess this whole time? Man, this headphone cord is really twisting my knickers somewhere weird. Dude, we’ve done so many great things over the years, man. And I’m all jacked up ‘cause I just finished my Dr. Shasta. Do you have another coaster for my Dr. Shasta? I gotta’, like… I gotta’ like… I gotta’, like… I gotta’ optimize the xylophone. I don’t like mushrooms because they’re like ear lobes. Bzzzt! Ouh! Anders, you ~know~ not to poke me.  Step one: find a short rusty nail and punch with force the nail into the cows head, not deep enough to penetrate the brainal cavity. Gibson, you are a saint among men. In Dostoevsky’s novel Crime and Punishment a certain character, Raskolnikov, writes a paper in which he states that there are certain extraordinary men who exist, and that they have the inward, not official, but inward right to commit “breaches of morals” in order to reach a certain end (Dostoevsky 260). According to Raskolnikov, he himself is an extraordinary man with the inward right to “overstep… certain obstacles” in order to fulfill an idea (Dostoevsky 260). He is, in all realistic senses, not an extraordinary man, and his definition of who is and is not an extraordinary man does not even exist in reality. Still, by believing that he is above ordinary men, he is able to internally justify his murdering of two women. His justification, ironically enough, is very common, and has existed in people since their beginning. This, in a sense, makes Raskolnikov an ordinary man, like the rest of humanity.
        Like all individuals, Raskolnikov believes that he is an extraordinary man. In the book during a conversation between Porfiry, a police official, and Raskolnikov, Porfiry says:
“Well you see… I really don’t know how to express it properly…. It’s a playful, psychological idea…. When you were writing your article, surely you couldn’t have helped, he-he! Fancying yourself… just a little, an ‘extraordinary’ man, uttering a new word in your sense…. That’s so, isn’t it?”
“Quite possibly,” Raskolnikov answered contemptuously (Dostoevsky 265).
Even though Raskolnikov does not explicitly state that he believes he is an extraordinary man, he hints at it quite clearly in this passage. Later in the book it is revealed that Raskolnikov just “wanted to be a Napoleon,” one who would simply kill an innocent woman in order to further his power and agenda (Dostoevsky 410-11). And in killing Alyona and Lizaveta he is, in a sense, becoming an extraordinary man like Napoleon.
        By believing that he is an extraordinary man, Raskolnikov justifies murdering Alyona and Lizaveta. By making them less than him, and just stepping-stones between him and a greater goal, he is able to marginalize their worth. Raskolnikov states, “The old woman was only an illness…. I was in a hurry to overstep…. I didn’t kill a human being, but a principle!” (Dostoevsky 274-75). He also says, “Crime? What crime? That I killed a vile noxious insect, an old pawnbroker woman, of use to no one! … Killing her was atonement for forty sins” (Dostoevsky 513). It is interesting how by making Alyona less than human, he is able to rationalize his own actions. By making her a vermin, he is able to turn murder into a public service, helping others while eliminating a worthless creature. This justification of his wrong does not make him extraordinary, but rather, cruel and deceived.
Even though Raskolnikov is not extraordinary in any moral or realistic sense, according to the article that he wrote he certainly appears to be. His paper claims that an extraordinary man is someone who is able to “utter a new word” (Dostoevsky 261). According to this statement, Raskolnikov is an extraordinary man, as he created this very idea (that of the ordinary and extraordinary man). He was even willing to prove that he contained the inward right to “overstep obstacles” by murdering the two women. Raskolnikov’s article also states, “Meanwhile the really new people are very often unobserved by them (that is ordinary people), or even despised as reactionaries of groveling tendencies” (Dostoevsky 263). This phrase describes Raskolnikov quite well incidentally. Still, Raskolnikov’s theory on extraordinary men is actually not new. It is an ancient idea that is still used today. In fact, everyone uses it. So often people justify their actions by creating the “moral right” to consciously “overstep certain obstacles” to reach their own ends and gains. One can rationally give himself the right to do just about anything by marginalizing the evil in the actions that they take.
Thus, even though Raskolnikov believes he is an extraordinary man, and “proves” it by creating a thesis that states the same, he is not extraordinary. He uses his extraordinary status to logically justify the murders he commits, but his extraordinary status does not morally justify his actions. Even though he believes his extraordinary idea is original, it has actually existed for a very long time, and it’s lessons can even be applicable to life today. It is important not to marginalize the evil in one’s actions, even if the issues surrounding the actions seem grey. In Oscar Wilde’s The Picture of Dorian Gray Dorian, although he may appear to be a pitiful victim or a tragic hero at certain points in the novel, is ultimately an evil villain. Even though Dorian does fulfill certain criteria of tragic heroes and pitiful victims they ultimately contradict his character and he is left a scoundrel. The character of Dorian Gray is quite important to the book as a whole as it defines the main character and the actions that he undertakes. And it is because of his actions that one can conclude the character of Dorian as a villain.
        A pitiful victim is someone who has been wronged in some way or another, and thus is changed in character as well. It is important to know that a pitiful victim is not repentant for their actions because their actions can be blamed on another. And although it may be easy to blame Lord Henry for Dorian’s change of heart, Dorian knows full well that his relationship with Harry may be unhealthy. Still he continues a steady bond to him regardless. Dorian, while speaking to Basil, a friend, says, “Of course, I am very fond of Harry. But I know you are better than he is” Wilde 114). There is still even greater evidence that Dorian is not a victim though. It is said of Dorian, “Better for him that each sin of his life had brought its sure, swift penalty along with it. There was purification in punishment. Not ‘Forgive us our sins’ but ‘Smite us for our iniquities’ should be the prayer of man to a most just God” (Wilde 226). This passage shows that Dorian is very aware of his sins, and knows that he is fully responsible for them as well. This does not fit the character of a pitiful victim.
        A tragic hero is someone who is misunderstood, and does evil things but with good intentions. It can be assumed that Dorian has good intentions behind his numerous evil acts, but one would be hard pressed to find an example of such an action. When Dorian shows the picture to Basil he is overcome with hatred and the book says he, “Dug the knife into the great vein that is behind the ear, crushing the man’s head down on the table, and stabbing again and again” (Wilde 163). Here Dorian takes the life of his friend for being convicted! There is nothing heroic in this. Later in the novel, Dorian tries to do something good by leaving a woman named Hetty before he was able to destroy her integrity. But when confronted by the painting he only sees that it has formed into something worse with a “look of cunning” and the “curved wrinkle of the hypocrite” in the mouth (Wilde 227). Even when he attempts a pure act, his intentions are still sinful.
        An evil villain is one who intentionally does sinful things for his own pleasure. They delight in darkness and find rest in evil. Concerning Dorian, Wilde writes, 
From cell to cell of his brain crept the one thought; and the wild desire to live, most terrible of all man’s appetites, quickened into force each trembling nerve and fiber. Ugliness that had once been hateful to him because it made things real, became dear to him now for that very reason. Ugliness was the one reality (191).
Even Dorian’s soul is evil. The painting, which reflects Dorian’s true self, is horrible and corrupt, tainted with sin and age, and loathsome of visage (Wilde 131,229). His thoughts, countless sinful acts, and soul itself all testify to a horrid villain. It is important to see Dorian as who he really is. It is all too easy to paint Dorian as something that he is not, but by doing so his character is marred and the intentions behind every action he takes are missed.
        Although Dorian may appear to have the character of a pitiful victim or a tragic hero, he truly has the character of an evil villain. His mind, soul, and actions confirm this. His “innocence” does not comfortably fit in the place of a victim as he is more than aware of his sins, and is knowingly responsible for them. His intentions don’t correlate to those of a tragic hero as he acts with evil motives. In the end he is only one thing, and that is an evil villain. In Hemingway’s The Old Man and the Sea Hemingway portrays the sea as a character, and it plays an integral role in the story. Although the sea is an inanimate object it is personified and formed into a character through the novel. Near the beginning of the book, Santiago states that, “He always thought of the sea as la mar which is what people call her in Spanish when they love her” (Hemingway 29). Further, he thinks of the sea as “As feminine and as something that gave or withheld great favors, and if she did wild or wicked things it was because she could not help them” (Hemingway 30). In these passages, the old man gives the sea a character and makes it more than just a place. For Santiago, the sea is what gives him his life. He says, “You [Santiago] were born to be a fisherman, as the fish was born to be a fish” (Hemingway 105), and the sea provides for his needs. Even so, the sea begins as a beautiful and wonderful thing, and ends as a place of struggle for Santiago. It both gives him the fish and takes it away.
        At the conclusion of Hemingway’s story and the great battle, victory, and loss that ensues throughout, one should feel both awe and respect for the sea’s presence. Hemingway provides these feelings by describing the sea’s beauty. Hemingway writes, “The sun rose thinly from the sea and the old man could see the other boats, low on the water and well in toward the shore, spread out across the current” (Hemingway 32). Hemingway also shows its power when he says, “She [The ocean] is kind and very beautiful. But she can be so cruel…” (Hemingway 29). The sea plays a role through the novel as a character would, but it is also a character in its own right, as its great image is plastered on the imagination of the reader throughout the entirety of the novel. In Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby Jay Gatsby is a respectable character in some aspects, but contains a tragic flaw that ultimately leads to his demise. This tragic flaw is the unending desire and even idolization of his love, Daisy. This eventually leads to the downfall of the Great Gatsby by removing the foundation on which he forms his life. Even so, this flaw can be seen as admirable when looked at from certain perspectives. All in all, it is a very interesting flaw indeed.
        Through the book, the great desire that Gatsby has for Daisy is realized. It can first be seen when Gatsby reaches out to the green light at the end of Daisy’s dock. Nick says, “Gatsby believed in the green light, the orgastic future that year by year recedes before us” (Fitzgerald 180). Gatsby only desires to have Daisy as she was when they first kissed and she “Blossomed for him like a flower…” (Fitzgerald 111). He wants to reincarnate the past, before he left and Daisy married. Gatsby says, “Can’t repeat the past? Why of course you can!” (Fitzgerald 110). He truly believes that he can win Daisy back, and he puts his total dependence, hope, and faith in Daisy. She, on the other hand, is not totally inclined to feel the same way towards him. This is why Gatsby’s hope and obsession over Daisy is a tragic flaw.
        The unstable ground on which Gatsby stands shakes and crumbles in an instant. After a great fight between Tom, Daisy’s husband, and Gatsby deciding whom it was that she loves (Fitzgerald 129-135), Gatsby’s destruction begins. Tom says, “You two start on home, Daisy. In Mr. Gatsby’s car. Go on. He won’t annoy you. I think he realizes that his presumptuous little flirtation is over” (Fitzgerald 135). At this point Tom knows that he has won over Gatsby. As for Jay, his idol, the thing for which he lives, is snatched away from him.
        Even after Gatsby’s downfall and demise Nick states, “Only Gatsby, the man who gives his name to this book, was exempt from my reaction---Gatsby, who represented everything for which I have an unaffected scorn. No---Gatsby turned out all right in the end…” (Fitzgerald 2). Nick still sees Gatsby as great, and as a man worth admiring. Why is this? Nick tells us. He says, “It was an extraordinary gift for hope, a romantic readiness such as I have never found in any other person and which it is not likely I shall ever find again” (Fitzgerald 2). It was Gatsby’s great love and hope for his future with Daisy that sparked admiration within Nick. How surprising that the very thing which can be considered a tragic flaw in Gatsby is what causes the narrator to appreciate him!
        This great desire for Daisy that Gatsby has both brings about his destruction and the respect of one of his closest friends. In the novel it is learned that Gatsby only wants Daisy. He puts all of his hope in her love and idolizes her above all else. This is the flaw that leads to his fall. When she is taken away from him his support is taken away with her. In the end his hope is placed in something that wasn’t guaranteed to hold him up, and thus, he fell. The World State of Brave New World and Oceania of 1984 both control and deprive their citizens in different ways, but they do so with a common goal. That is, to possess absolute power over the people. These governments grasp the will of the populous by controlling them down to their every thought, and by depraving them of all experiences that may lead their minds astray. By doing so, it seems as though the people literally have no other choice but to submit to the governing ideals. In this way, absolute power is obtained.
        The World State controls its inhabitants through a variety of interesting methods. The first step is conditioning. The subjects of the World State are given a life before birth; their “unescapable social destiny” is planned out for them from the beginning (Huxley 16). As embryos, they are altered to fit their occupation, and at a young age they are forced to hate or desire certain tasks and objects through “Neo-Pavlovian Conditioning” (Huxley 21). The citizens’ morals are stripped away, being taught only what the State desires; their minds are molded through hypnopedia (Huxley 27). After the subjects have been conditioned, they are given all they could want. Sexual promiscuity is encouraged as “Everybody belongs to every one else” (Huxley 121). The people are given reprieve from their monotonous lives through soma. They are thus consumed by comfortable captivity and are easily controlled.
        As for the Party of Oceania, a rather different approach is taken in order to control the people. Subjugation starts with the constant and entirely encompassing destruction of privacy. Fervent observation is upheld everywhere and always, “Big Brother is watching you” (Orwell2). Such constant surveillance would be pointless without a consequence for misbehavior. Thus, the thought police come into play. Winston says, “Only the Thought Police mattered” (Orwell 2). Through them, fear is given free reign over the people. Although their practices are different, both the World State and Oceania have a focus on the next generation. Through the ages, all old ways of life are forgotten, and all truth is replaced with lies in the minds of the moldable youth. By these methods, the citizens of Oceania are held in check.
        Once control of the populous is obtained, it must be kept. Both the Brave New World and the Party do so through deprivation. In the World State, no strong feelings can be felt; all passions are purged from the people. Mustapha Mond, the district controller, says, “Fortunate boys! No pains have been spared to make your lives emotionally easy” (Huxley 44). Even more so, free will has been taken away from them. This concept is seen in the climax of the novel during a conversation between John, a savage, and Mustapha Mond. John says, “ ‘But I don’t want comfort. I want God, I want poetry, I want real danger, I want freedom, I want goodness, I want sin.’ ‘In fact,’ said Mustapha Mond, ‘You’re claiming the right to be unhappy.’ ‘All right then,’ said the savage defiantly, ‘I’m claiming the right to be unhappy’ “ (Huxley 240).
        The Party, rather than snuffing out all humanity by providing an excess of sinful and pleasurable distractions, thoroughly and efficiently scours away all delights and basic moral necessities. In Oceania, the family has been destroyed (Orwell 133), countless pleasures have been revoked including that of sexual intercourse (Orwell 65), and truth has been obliterated [whether or not that is indeed possible should not be discussed here] and is replaced by the relativism of the Party through the process of doublethink. Even the privilege of free thought is taken away. O’Brien, a member of the thought police, says, “The Party is not interested in the overt act: the thought is all we care about” (Orwell 253). The people of Oceania are made weak and malleable to the will and whim of the Party.
        In the end, although the World State of Brave New World and Oceania of 1984 enact differing ways of achieving a goal, it is a goal that they share in common. Mustapha Mond says, “Stability. The primal and the ultimate need. Stability. Hence all this” (Huxley 43). O’Brien states, “The Party seeks power entirely for its own sake. We are not interested in the good of others; we are interested solely in power, Not wealth or luxury or long life or happiness; only power, pure power” (Orwell 263). They both aim for a society that will last forever; one that will provide stability and power to those in command. It is important to note that the kind of control that these societies strive for is inherently dark, and seeks to annihilate fundamental morals and truths. This is another thing they both hold in common.
        The Brave New world and Oceania control their citizens, even to the point of the loss of free will. They also deprive their inhabitants of basic human rights. They do so, that they may have absolute power over the people. Still, power and stability in and of themselves are not evil. In order to understand what makes these states so wretched two quotes should be examined. Bonhoeffer said, “Silence in the face of evil is itself evil: God will not hold us guiltless. Not to speak is to speak. Not to act is to act.” Burke said, “The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.”* What makes these civilizations both terrifying and wicked is that they do an excellent job nullifying these beliefs. There is no longer right, wrong, or truth outside of what the state says. * Although this quote is attributed to Burke, its original creator is unknown. In Bless Me, Ultima there are three main worldviews presented. These are Catholicism, the Golden Carp, and the goodness of Ultima. All of these contain their faults, but many of them have benefits as well. The decision regarding faith is crucial to Antonio, as it would end up defining and influencing him throughout the rest of his life. Even so, there is only one worldview would be the most beneficial for him and his future to trust in.
        Catholicism is possibly the most predominant worldview that is presented in the novel. Antonio struggles to grasp its teachings and traditions as he continuously realizes they cannot answer the many questions he has. Something that Catholicism does provide for Antonio is a reverence towards God and, at the very least, introduces him to the word of God where he may find some of the answers he is looking for. Even so, it instills a sense of fear within Antonio towards God. While dreaming Antonio speaks with God. He says, “I am not a God of forgiveness!” (Anaya 173). This comes from a failure to recognize the exclusive mercy of God. Ultima says, “And more important, mi hijo, you must never judge who God forgives and who He doesn’t” (Anaya 33). To Antonio it is “The virgin [that] always forgave” (Anaya 44). In this way a picture of a wrathful and capricious God, lacking in mercy, is instilled in his mind.
        The Golden Carp presents itself to Antonio and he “could not have been more entranced if [he] had seen the Virgin, or God Himself” (Anaya 114). What does this fish have to offer Antonio? It is a being he can see with his own eyes. While considering the Golden Carp Antonio thinks, “at last, a god who does not punish, a god who can bring beauty into my life–“ (Anaya 238). Even still, it has no way to answer the numerous questions Antonio has about life and God. Any notion he contrives regarding faith and the Golden Carp would simply be fanciful and man-made. It wouldn’t be truth from a higher authority. 
        The magic of the curandera, Ultima, is the last of the three outstanding worldviews presented in Bless Me, Ultima. Ultima emphasizes the battle between good and evil telling him “good is always stronger than evil” (Anaya 98). She also has a will to do what is right. She says, “My work was to do good” (Anaya 260). What is interesting is that Antonio is unable to differentiate between Ultima’s goodness and the power of evil when he says, “But how could the blessing of Ultima be like the whirlwind? Was the power of good and evil the same?” (Anaya 55). Regardless, it is difficult, but helpful, to realize that Ultima’s magic, her goodness, cannot save Antonio, and neither can his own.
        The question of which religion Antonio should choose is answered in a somewhat radical notion made by Antonio. He thinks, “perhaps his religion could be made to change. If the old religion could no longer answer the questions of the children then perhaps it was time to change it” (Anaya 248). Antonio recognizes the fact that the worldviews presented to him are not perfect. Most religions exist as fundamental truths provided by a higher power. If they need to be changed in order to answer life questions, they probably were not true to begin with. In this sense Catholicism would be the best worldview for Antonio to adopt. What Catholicism holds that the others don’t is the potential to introduce him to truth, or at the very least provoke him to search for it. The three main worldviews of Catholicism, the Golden Carp, and the magic of the curandera all appeal to Antonio to some extent within the novel. He never definitively chooses one but their existence within the work and the struggle Antonio experiences between them both portray the importance of the questions pertaining to religion and truth. These notions presented in Bless Me, Ultima are not new, and are still very relevant today. The truth that eludes Antonio is the same truth that eludes so many today. Many people saw The French Revolution as a bloodbath that was too unfortunate to justify the freedom of the people. Some, though, viewed The French Revolution as necessary, and was justified in its actions. Edmund Burke was an English man that viewed The French Revolution as an act of barbarism, and was fundamentally evil. Mary Wollstonecraft, on the other hand, believed that The French Revolution was needed, and that the freedom of the people from the corrupt monarchy was worth the loss of the many lives at the national razor. This debate really comes down to whether or not the ends justify the means. Burke would say no while Wollstonecraft would say yes.
        Edmund Burke was very resolute in his ideas regarding The French Revolution. He was wholly opposed to it. One of the main reasons he disliked it to such an extent was because it was a Godless revolution, meaning that the people aimed to abolish the church in France during the Revolution. In his Discourse Regarding the French Revolution, Burke states, “We know, and what is better, we feel inwardly, that religion is the basis of civil society and the source of all good and of all comfort.” He also didn’t want the Revolutionary ideas spreading from France to England. Lastly, when he looked at the terrible things occurring in France in order that the Revolution might be carried out, he was disgusted.
        Mary Wollstonecraft did not deny the brutality of The French Revolution, but she justified it by stating that the Revolution was necessary for the freedom of the people. She hated the corrupt monarchy and thought that if it were to be ended by wretched means, so be it. In her Vindication of the Rights of Man, she states, “…Yet millions of men have supinely allowed the nerveless limbs of the posterity of such rapacious prowlers to rest quietly on their ensanguined thrones.” She also said, “Will men never be wise? –Will they never cease to expect corn from tares, and figs from thistles?” (tares and thistles being the monarchy of course). Lastly she says, “It is impossible for any man, when the most favorable circumstance concur, to acquire sufficient knowledge and strength of mind to discharge the duties of a king, entrusted with the uncontrolled power…” She quite clearly was against the monarchy, and was willing to get equal rights for everyone from him, whatever the cost.
        The question still remains though; do the ends justify the means? When The French Revolution is reviewed and the atrocious things that happened in its grasp, it can be hard to say whether it was worth it. One can reasonably say that Edmund Burke was right in the end. Is anything worth the deaths of so many people? There is no question that the monarchy was corrupt, and that its destruction was necessary for the advancement of the people, but the lives of people are worth much more. Once the only mean of upholding the Revolution was death, it was no longer worth fighting for.
        The debate between Wollstonecraft and Burke is just simply a battle between what is worth giving for a result or an end. Wollstonecraft believed that the Revolution was necessary, as it provided a way to the equality of man, a bloody way mind you. Burke was just unwilling to compromise on his views, and believed that a Revolution that destroyed good, was not worth upholding. The question, which was relevant to this past event and still is today, still remains: what is worth giving to fight for what is right. Hello, Rozepaard and Doctor Baldy Face. This is your commander, Mr. Made With Re-all Sug-ar. Segreant Mick Ramboo Bowel Dozer is on the loose. He is very evil. He has incriminating files that could destroy the wooooooooooooooooooorld. Your mission is: have Rozepaard fight him. If he does not comply, deadly consequences.. Blow up his base, burn the files. See ya later fools, peace. At the very center of America, a desire for complete liberty is alive and active. Liberty was present during the foundation of America and throughout history it has been a key player in the actions America took, even unto today. This is because, at the heart of the birth of America, the pilgrims were seeking liberty; and ever since it has dictated many ideals of this country. The seeking of liberty from the oppression of another sparked the Revolutionary War, a fundamental event in the history of America. These occurrences, and many others, show why liberty is so weaved in the fabric of the lives of Americans, and also what liberty consists of.
        At the very beginning of this country the pilgrims sought out freedom from troubles in their homeland. Bradford states, “But after these things they could not long continue in any peaceable condition, but were hunted and persecuted on every side…” (158). This persecution was a result of the pilgrims’ religion, a topic that seems to pop up frequently with regards to liberty. It was because of the pilgrims need for liberty that, “They began to incline to this conclusion: of the removal to some other place” (Bradford 159). It should be noted that the pilgrims’ travels to America were quite bitter. This can be seen in Bradford’s writing:
Being thus passed the vast ocean, and a sea of troubles before in their preparation, they had now no friends to welcome them nor inns to entertain or refresh their weatherbeaten bodies; no houses or much less towns to repair to, to seek for succor. (168)
This quote gives a glimpse of their troubles, and it also sheds some light on how hard liberty was to obtain. The founders of America fought for it, and ever since this country has held it in high regards.
        Once America was well established, but still under the rule of Great Britain, America cast her die and set out to fight for the freedom of her land. In possibly the most iconic document in American history, a very recognizable quote can be pulled:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness. (Declaration of Ind.)
This quote revolves around the idea of liberty, and this document fueled the fight for liberty from Great Britain. This desire for freedom was not groundless either. A major section of the Declaration of Independence is a list of grievances against the King of Great Britain and the land itself (Declaration of Ind.). The fight for liberty, the ability to hold our own, was what made America an independent land.
        Once America had gained freedom from Great Britain a government was in order, and that is where the Constitution came in. The First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution states:
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. 
Is it interesting that the “Supreme Law of the Land” was first amended to address these freedoms? (U.S. Constitution Article VI). No, rather, it is fitting that the liberty America had so fervently sought after through its past was quickly added to the laws that ruled its lands.
        One last event that must be observed in the history of America regarding its freedoms is the American Civil War. It was the bloodiest event that America would ever experience, and at its core was the value of liberty. The North sought unity while the South sought separation and freedom from the bondage of the North. At the end of the many battles that ensued, the North came out victorious. Thus, a new type of liberty was abolished, slavery. The Thirteenth Amendment essentially destroyed slavery (although the backlashes of slavery are still seen today) giving liberty to millions (U.S. Constitution).
        Thus liberty was and is present in the soul of this country. From the pilgrims through the Revolutionary and Civil War liberty engrained itself into American ideals and society. Founded on the freedom from others, and the freedom of the individual, America seeks to give each person liberty in religion, speech, opinion, actions, etc. Liberty is paramount in America’s ideals, and will hopefully stick around for some time more. The battle between religion and reason has raged for as long as mankind has existed. Some think that religion and reason go hand in hand, while others think that they cannot always go together. During the Renaissance, Enlightenment, and other such time periods, events like The Reformation, The Age of Exploration, The Scientific Revolution, and political problems fueled this battle. New philosophers like Milton, Descartes, Pascal, and Montaigne arrived, all with differing views on this subject.  Explorers like Bartolome De Las Casas had opinions on this. Scientists like Galileo presented stunning new discoveries that were rabidly attacked by those who didn’t think they agreed with religion. Lastly, social contract theorists like Hobbes, Locke, and Rousseau added their own opinions to this fire. These people, during this time, made this topic very interesting and important, with many differing views.
        John Milton, who wrote Paradise Lost, was a man who believed that religion and reason could go together. The first clue to this is the fact that his book is the retelling of a Biblical (Religious) account. Even on the first page he says, “Sing heav’nly muse…” (Line 6). Some would consider asking a muse to aid you in the writing of an epic to be irrational, but he felt comfortable calling upon a spiritual figure to be involved in the writing of his book.
        Rene Descartes also believed in the relationship between religion and reason, although in a different way. It could be said that he thought reason more important than religion, as his religion was completely dependant on rational thought. In his Meditations on First Philosophy, he even says, “I had to raze everything to the ground and begin again from the original foundations, if I wanted to establish anything firm and lasting…” (Page 27). He then continued from knowing nothing to proving God with only a (debatably) rational train of thought (Meditation Three).
        Another philosopher that added to this debate was Pascal. Pascal believed quite differently than Descartes though. He thought that religion was pointless without faith, and had no meaning if upheld by nothing but reason. He even made a wager, which showed that believing in God would always end better than not believing in God. But the wager feels empty, like it is missing something, and that was done on purpose. Pascal made it this way this so as to say that it is ridiculous to believe in religion without faith, as without faith religion is meaningless.
        Montaigne, who used reason to expound upon subjects that contained religious slices, probably believed that they could go together. It should also be noted that both Protestants and Catholics, the two main religious figureheads during that time, respected him, despite the fact that he was a philosopher discussing rational matters. In his essay To Philosophize is to Learn how to Die, Montaigne stated that clinging to earthly things makes you fear death (Page 91). Both holding onto earthly things and not fearing death are integral Christian doctrines, and in this single essay he is going over both of them, not in a religious way, but in a rational way.
        There were other men who were involved in this battle that were not philosophers. Bartolome De Las Casas, who was an explorer, stated in his Brief Account of the Devastation of the Indies that, “We can estimate surely and truthfully that in the forty years that have passed, with the infernal actions of the Christians, there have been unjustly slain more than twelve million men, women, and children. In truth, I believe without trying to deceive myself that the number of the slain is more like fifteen million.” (Page number unknown). A few things can be deduced from this phrase regarding the battle between reason and religion, but one of the more important things to point out is how he calls the Spaniards “Christians.” He uses this term, not to bash on followers of Christ, but to question the religious state of the Spaniards. By looking at their actions, and what the Bible states, he is inferring that even though they call themselves Christians, they may not be so. This displays for us that Casas probably believed that Christians had a standard, and maybe that there was a God who made that standard. This would be a religious belief.
        The Age of Exploration wasn’t the only event going on that fueled this debate. The Scientific Revolution brought scientists into the fray as well. Men like Galileo Galilei were destroyed by religious figures for presenting discoveries that meddled with doctrinal truths. What’s interesting about Galileo’s account is not that he believed that religion and reason could go together, but that the Catholic Church, and learned people alike were unable to do so. In The Trial of Galileo, we can see Galileo say, “My dear Kepler, what would you say of the learned here, who, replete with the pertinacity of the asp, have steadfastly refused to cast a glance through the telescope?” (Page 1).  After Galileo refused to stop expressing what he discovered, the Catholic Church decided to retain him by force. During his trial, we read, “The merits of his case, as a practical matter, had been decided already; all he could do was submit”  (Page 5). It can seem incredibly stunning, that in this case, it seemed like the Catholic Church was unable to comprehend that God could have made the world rationally. They were unable to accept new doctrine.
        Lastly, we can look at the social contract theorists Hobbes, Locke, and Rousseau. It needs to be stated that these people aimed to make functional societies, and all functional societies need rational and organized rules in order to be so. All of these people discussed about how religion will be handled, and Rousseau specifically stated in On Social Contract that there would be religious tolerance in his society (Page number unknown). These men recognized that in order to have a rational commonwealth, religion must be addressed.
        This debate was disputed over back in the days of exploration and reformation, but even today this debate still rages on. It is of great importance, and might never even be resolved. It can still be useful to look to the past though, and see the opinions of prevalent figures on this subject. People like Descartes, Pascal, and Galileo all expressed differing views on this subject, and were even downtrodden upon for their beliefs. It is still wonderful to know that these paramount topics, religion and reason, were and still are fighting for the top. CHAPTER XXII: FREE GORDONMAN AND CO-ORKER JIM FLY OVER THE TREACHEROUS FOREST OF THE BIRDS, AND OTHER SUCH MISADVENTURES THAT BEFALL THIS CREW. 
Free Gordonman, who was manning the Jolly Dallas, which in his eyes was worthy of any adventure that would come their way, steered toward the deadly forest of the birds, saying to his manly companion, “Yo-ho! I see the forest up ahead! Pour the finest coals into the furnace, with must proceed with hasty!” Co-orker Jim, looking at the small pile of rubble to pile into the furnace of this death trap of a ship, sighing, but still pressing on, in hopes of the planet he was promised. “Free Gordonman, my ever so great captain, we are low on the fuels, and I don’t think we’ll make it through the forest, unless we stop to get more provisions” “My faithful companion, this ship could sail to the furthest reaches of the universe than nothing more than a single pound cake! For is it ordained by the powers above me that we shall make it through this forest of birds!” Just then, a swarm of feathered demons poured out of the forest, scattering towards the faithful Jolly Dallas. Free Gordonman, taking this is as a sign to show his amazing captaining, grabbed his claymore-musketoon and began to barrage the enemy ship, believing the birds to actually be a mighty vessel, bent only on the destruction of the Jolly Dallas. For at least ten hours, Free Gordonman screamed all his lungs out, pelting his enemies to the earth below, seemingly never running out of shots, though in reality the supplies were almost depleted. “Captain, our ammo supplements are almost depleted! In the name of saving this precious commodity, you may wish to hold off your attacks on these poor creatures!” “What poor creatures? The things are of the most vile nature, pirates of the Berblabler Order!” With his entire muster, Free Gordonman picked up his last shot and aimed at an unfortunately positioned pheasant that had laid upon the balloon. Not a second after the shot was fired; all the guts of the bird sprayed everywhere and clipped the canvas of the balloon. Almost instantly, they were plummeting to towards the forest below, with no weaponry or fuel, besides a mere wooden stick to protect them. “Rotten birds! You with you heinous talons have ripped open the balloon of my great Jolly Dallas!” Free Gordonman bellowed. Turning to his faithful companion, “If I hadn’t shot that demon sooner, he would’ve surely ripped us all to pieces, not just our balloon would have fallen!” “Yes, if it weren’t for you, that bird would have killed us! But we are still plummeting to our deaths!” At this point, the Jolly Dallas was nearing the canopy of the forest; soon the ship was scraping the top most leaves of the dreaded forest. Our valiant captain, Free Gordonman, fearless of their future fate, sternly proclaimed, “I’m sure the powers above destined to arrive in this terrible place. Do not fear Co-orker Jim, our lives do not end this day!” In that exact moment, the shriveled blimp crashed into the ground, spewing metal and flames every which way, the ground itself shook from the very impact, no man or creature could’ve ignored the mighty explosion, at least according to Free Gordonman, as this is all that consumed his thoughts as they reached the soil. Instantly, Free Gordonman leaped from the wreckage, as if he were a giant tree frog, propelled from a crashing tree. He landed on the earth, sprawled out and flat. Co-orker Jim cautiously stepped out from the shaken vessel, surveying all that had occurred. “My captain, are you all right? It appears to me this halt affected you more than it did me. But that must only be due to your mighty captain-ness” “Truly, Co-orker Jim, you must be correct. Since I am the sole captain of this fallen ship, the fates must punish me for my valiant but ill-conceived notions.” 
By the amazing Cameron Cloyd and the rather stupendous Matthew Reed and Anders. TO BE CONTINUED.